.github/prompts/ConsistencyCheck.prompt.md, before:

---
mode: "agent"
tools: ['edit', 'runNotebooks', 'search', 'new', 'runCommands', 'runTasks', 'usages', 'vscodeAPI', 'think', 'problems', 'changes', 'testFailure', 'openSimpleBrowser', 'fetch', 'githubRepo', 'extensions', 'todos', 'runTests', 'sequentialthinking', 'review', 'reviewStaged', 'reviewUnstaged', 'websearch']
description: "Conduct a thorough review of the codebase for consistency"
---

# Codebase Consistency Audit Prompt

## Objective

Perform a comprehensive analysis of the entire codebase to identify and resolve any inconsistencies in logic, data flow, and architectural patterns before implementing new features.

## Analysis Requirements

### 1. Structural Consistency Check

- [ ] Verify uniform implementation of design patterns across all files
- [ ] Identify any divergent architectural approaches (e.g., mixed MVC vs MVVM)
- [ ] Check for consistent layer separation (presentation, business logic, data access)

### 2. Data Flow Audit

- [ ] Map all data pathways and transformations
- [ ] Flag any inconsistent data handling (e.g., different validation approaches for similar data types)
- [ ] Verify uniform error handling patterns for data operations

### 3. Logic Uniformity Review

- [ ] Detect duplicate or similar functions with different implementations
- [ ] Identify business logic that's implemented differently in various components
- [ ] Check for consistent state management approaches

### 4. Interface Consistency

- [ ] Verify API endpoint patterns follow consistent conventions
- [ ] Check for uniform parameter handling and response formats
- [ ] Audit internal component interfaces for consistency

### 5. Inconsistency Detection

- [ ] Highlight areas where similar operations are handled differently
- [ ] Flag any anti-patterns or deviations from established conventions
- [ ] Identify "special case" implementations that should be generalized

## Output Requirements

### 1. Categorized Report

For each inconsistency found:

- File locations
- Specific code snippets
- Description of the inconsistency
- Recommended standardization approach

### 2. Prioritization

Findings should be prioritized by:

- Impact on system stability
- Potential for bugs
- Effect on maintainability

### 3. Improvement Suggestions

For each major inconsistency category:

- A unified approach to adopt
- Required refactoring steps
- Impact analysis of proposed changes

### 4. Roadmap

Create a consistency improvement roadmap with:

- Quick wins (easy fixes with high impact)
- Medium-term standardization projects
- Long-term architectural alignment

## Additional Instructions

- Pay special attention to boundary areas between components/modules
- Consider both horizontal (same-layer) and vertical (cross-layer) consistency
- Don't worry about test files for this task.
- Focus on implementation files only
- Don't worry about minor formatting issues when making changes. (Can always fix with (eslint . --fix))
- Highlight any inconsistencies that might affect upcoming feature work

Commit message:

📝 [docs] Clarifies Zustand store patterns and updates guides
- Improves documentation to distinguish between direct create and modular composition patterns for Zustand state management.
- Adds a dedicated guide for pattern selection and migration, including decision criteria and anti-patterns.
- Updates architecture and UI guides to reflect best practices and provide concrete examples for choosing store patterns.
- Refines prompt instructions for consistency checks and fast-check test coverage to enforce full file scans and comprehensive quality gates.
- Refactors some component and utility interfaces for naming clarity and external type usage.

Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

.github/prompts/ConsistencyCheck.prompt.md, after:

---
mode: "agent"
tools: ['edit', 'runNotebooks', 'search', 'new', 'runCommands', 'runTasks', 'usages', 'vscodeAPI', 'think', 'problems', 'changes', 'testFailure', 'openSimpleBrowser', 'fetch', 'githubRepo', 'extensions', 'todos', 'runTests', 'sequentialthinking', 'review', 'reviewStaged', 'reviewUnstaged', 'websearch']
description: "Conduct a thorough review of the codebase for consistency"
---

# Codebase Consistency Audit Prompt

## Objective

Perform a comprehensive analysis of the **entire codebase** (scan **ALL** files, not just a subset) to identify and resolve any inconsistencies in logic, data flow, and architectural patterns before implementing new features. Start with small utility files and work your way back to the larger files like main.ts and app.tsx

## Analysis Requirements

### 1. Structural Consistency Check

- [ ] Verify uniform implementation of design patterns across all files
- [ ] Identify any divergent architectural approaches (e.g., mixed MVC vs MVVM)
- [ ] Check for consistent layer separation (presentation, business logic, data access)

### 2. Data Flow Audit

- [ ] Map all data pathways and transformations
- [ ] Flag any inconsistent data handling (e.g., different validation approaches for similar data types)
- [ ] Verify uniform error handling patterns for data operations

### 3. Logic Uniformity Review

- [ ] Detect duplicate or similar functions with different implementations
- [ ] Identify business logic that's implemented differently in various components
- [ ] Check for consistent state management approaches

### 4. Interface Consistency

- [ ] Verify API endpoint patterns follow consistent conventions
- [ ] Check for uniform parameter handling and response formats
- [ ] Audit internal component interfaces for consistency

### 5. Inconsistency Detection

- [ ] Highlight areas where similar operations are handled differently
- [ ] Flag any anti-patterns or deviations from established conventions
- [ ] Identify "special case" implementations that should be generalized

## Output Requirements

### 1. Categorized Report

For each inconsistency found:

- File locations
- Specific code snippets
- Description of the inconsistency
- Recommended standardization approach

### 2. Prioritization

Findings should be prioritized by:

- Impact on system stability
- Potential for bugs
- Effect on maintainability

### 3. Improvement Suggestions

For each major inconsistency category:

- A unified approach to adopt
- Required refactoring steps
- Impact analysis of proposed changes

### 4. Roadmap

Create a consistency improvement roadmap with:

- Quick wins (easy fixes with high impact)
- Medium-term standardization projects
- Long-term architectural alignment

## Additional Instructions

- Pay special attention to boundary areas between components/modules
- Consider both horizontal (same-layer) and vertical (cross-layer) consistency
- Don't worry about test files for this task.
- Focus on implementation files only
- Don't worry about minor formatting issues when making changes. (Can always fix with (eslint . --fix))
- Highlight any inconsistencies that might affect upcoming feature work

- **Time constraint setting:** `unlimited`
- **Compute Resource setting:** `unlimited`
- **Compute Constraint setting:** `unlimited`
- **Thinking Mode setting:** `Super Think` `Deep Think` `Think step by step` `think harder`
- **Thinking Constraint Time setting:** `unlimited`
