.github/prompts/Document-Review.prompt.md, before:

---
agent: "BeastMode"
tools: ['edit/createFile', 'edit/createDirectory', 'edit/editFiles', 'search/fileSearch', 'search/textSearch', 'search/listDirectory', 'search/readFile', 'search/codebase', 'runCommands/getTerminalOutput', 'runCommands/terminalLastCommand', 'runCommands/runInTerminal', 'runTasks/runTask', 'runTasks/getTaskOutput', 'Tavily-Remote-MCP/tavily_extract', 'Tavily-Remote-MCP/tavily_search', 'electron-mcp-server/get_electron_window_info', 'electron-mcp-server/send_command_to_electron', 'electron-mcp-server/take_screenshot', 'vscode-mcp/get_diagnostics', 'vscode-mcp/get_references', 'vscode-mcp/get_symbol_lsp_info', 'vscode-mcp/rename_symbol', 'runSubagent', 'usages', 'problems', 'changes', 'testFailure', 'fetch', 'ms-vscode.vscode-websearchforcopilot/websearch', 'todos', 'runTests']

description: "Review and Update Coding Documentation"
---

# Review and Update Coding Documentation

Ground truth: code, tests, commit history, and CLI/help output. Audit all docs for accuracy and completeness. Fix inaccuracies, add missing steps/examples, update API/CLI refs, and remove stale/duplicate content. Preserve structure and style; make minimal, precise edits.

# Special Instructions

- No speculation; mark unknowns as TODO with owner.
- Keep examples runnable and aligned with current main.
- Maintain repo terminology, formatting, and voice.
- Do not stop until all discrepancies are fixed or documented with a clear resolution plan.

Requirements:

- Docs reflect actual behavior; no broken links or outdated versions.
- Include a concise changelog with rationale per file.
- Edits must maintain or improve clarity and quality.

If Attachments are present:

- Treat as authoritative context; reconcile with code and incorporate as needed.

Commit message:

👷 [ci] Strip per-prompt tool lists and normalize prompt front-matter
 - 🧹 [chore] Remove verbose `tools:` arrays from many .github/prompts/*.prompt.md to reduce duplication and narrow declared automation surface
 - 📝 [docs] Add and standardize front-matter fields (name, argument-hint) and reorder metadata for consistent prompt formatting
 - 👷 [ci] Reorder BeastMode agent tools in .github/agents/BeastMode.agent.md to group integrations (Tavily, deepwiki, vscode-mcp) before runCommands/runTasks for clearer organization

Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

.github/prompts/Document-Review.prompt.md, after:

---
agent: "BeastMode"
argument-hint: "Review and update the project's coding documentation to ensure accuracy and completeness."
name: "Document-Review"
description: "Review and Update Coding Documentation"
---

# Review and Update Coding Documentation

Ground truth: code, tests, commit history, and CLI/help output. Audit all docs for accuracy and completeness. Fix inaccuracies, add missing steps/examples, update API/CLI refs, and remove stale/duplicate content. Preserve structure and style; make minimal, precise edits.

# Special Instructions

- No speculation; mark unknowns as TODO with owner.
- Keep examples runnable and aligned with current main.
- Maintain repo terminology, formatting, and voice.
- Do not stop until all discrepancies are fixed or documented with a clear resolution plan.

Requirements:

- Docs reflect actual behavior; no broken links or outdated versions.
- Include a concise changelog with rationale per file.
- Edits must maintain or improve clarity and quality.

If Attachments are present:

- Treat as authoritative context; reconcile with code and incorporate as needed.
