.github/prompts/Generate-100%-Test-Coverage.prompt.md, before:

---
mode: "agent"
tools: ['All Tools']
description: "Generate 100% Test Coverage"
---

# Review All Coverage and Test Files

## Workflow

1. **Fix all broken tests first.**
2. Run and check current test errors and warnings:
   - `npm run test`
   - `npm run test:electron`
3. Ensure all tests pass with no errors or warnings.
4. Check coverage and create tests for files below 90% (or 100% if above 90%):
   - `npm run test:coverage`
   - `npm run test:electron:coverage`
5. Scan source code to create intelligent tests for all branches and edge cases.
6. Ensure comprehensive tests for all edge cases.
7. Use unlimited requests and time as needed.
8. **Do not skip any files**, regardless of size or perceived triviality.
9. Continue until all files reach 90% (or 100% if above 90%) coverage for branch, line, function, and statement.
10. Do not stop, even if the process is lengthy.

## Test Creation Rules

### General Guidelines

1. **Aim for clarity and simplicity** in your tests. They should be easy to read and understand.
2. **Test one thing at a time**. If a test is failing, you should be able to pinpoint the exact cause.
3. **Use descriptive names** for your tests. This will make it easier to understand what is being tested and why.
4. **Vitest Features are useful** for creating more effective tests. Familiarize yourself with them to enhance your testing strategy.
5. Use the following vitest features as they improve testing:

- Vitest Expect (Required)
- Vitest It (Required)
- Vitest Describe (Required)
- Vitest Bench (Optional (Recommended for performance testing))
- Vitest Mock (Optional (Recommended for mocking dependencies))
- Vitest Task (Optional (Recommended for managing test metadata))
- Vitest Annotate (Optional (Recommended for adding metadata to tests))
- Vitest Signal (Optional (Recommended for creating test signals))
- Vitest Snapshot (Optional (Recommended for creating test snapshots))

6. Always pull the links below for more detailed information or examples.
7. You can use CLI to filter test files by name, so you can test specific files:
   - Example: `npx vitest basic`: Will only execute test files that contain basic: `basic.test.ts` `basic-foo.test.ts` `basic/foo.test.ts`

### Vitest API Reference

- [Vitest API Reference](https://vitest.dev/api/)

#### Test Context

- `expect`: Assertions
- `describe`: Group tests
- `it`: Individual tests
- `skip`: Skip tests
- `task`: Metadata about the test
- `annotate`: Add metadata to tests
- `signal`: Create test signals

- [Vitest Test Context](https://vitest.dev/guide/test-context.html)

#### Type Testing

- Not required, but if used, ensure no type errors.
- Use `expectTypeOf` or `assertType` for type tests.
- [Vitest Type Testing](https://vitest.dev/guide/testing-types.html)

#### Test Mocking

- Use `vi.mock()` to mock dependencies.
- Reset mocks between tests: `vi.resetAllMocks()` or `vi.restoreAllMocks()`.
- Use `vi.fn()` for mock functions.
- [Vitest Mocking](https://vitest.dev/guide/mocking.html)

#### Test Benchmarking

- Use `vi.bench()` for benchmarks.
- Isolate benchmarks.
- Use `vi.fn()` for mock functions in benchmarks.
- [Vitest Benchmarking](https://vitest.dev/guide/benchmarking.html)

#### Test Snapshotting

- Use `toMatchSnapshot` for object/component snapshots (not recommended).
- Use `toMatchInlineSnapshot()` for inline snapshots (recommended if needed).
- [Vitest Snapshotting](https://vitest.dev/guide/snapshot.html)

## Special Instructions

- **Ignore coverage for console statements, logging, barrel exports, constants, and development-only features.**
- Focus on functional code and logic.
- Cover all edge cases where applicable.
- If something is too hard to test or mock:
  - Create a documentation file explaining why it is not covered.
  - Document edge cases and suggest improvements for testability.
- **If you discover a legitimate bug or issue while writing tests:**
  - Document it in a separate file.
  - Fix the codebase as appropriate (only if 100% sure).

## Requirements

- 90% branch, line, function, and statement coverage for all files (100% if above 90% already).
- Create tests for all files below 90% coverage until all files are covered.

## If Attachments Are Present

- They are problems identified in test runs that need to be fixed.
- If nothing attached, start with `npm run test` to fix broken tests.
- If no tests are broken, use `npm run test:coverage` and add testing to the uncovered areas.

---

### Important AI Note

- **Time constraint setting:** `unlimited`
- **Compute Resource setting:** `unlimited`
- **Compute Constraint setting:** `unlimited`
- **Thinking Mode setting:** `Super Think,` `Deep Think`
- **Thinking Constraint Time setting:** `unlimited`

---

## All Possible Test API to Use

### Test

- `test.extend`
- `test.skip`
- `test.skipIf`
- `test.runIf`
- `test.only`
- `test.concurrent`
- `test.sequential`
- `test.todo`
- `test.fails`
- `test.each`
- `test.for`

### Bench

- `bench`
- `bench.skip`
- `bench.only`
- `bench.todo`

### Describe

- `describe`
- `describe.skip`
- `describe.skipIf`
- `describe.runIf`
- `describe.only`
- `describe.concurrent`
- `describe.sequential`
- `describe.shuffle`
- `describe.todo`
- `describe.each`
- `describe.for`

### Setup and Teardown

- `beforeEach`
- `afterEach`
- `beforeAll`
- `afterAll`

### Test Hooks

- `onTestFinished`
- `onTestFailed`

## Test Assertions

- A long list can be found here: [Vitest Test Assertion API](https://vitest.dev/api/assert.html)

You cannot stop until you eliminate all of these test warnings:

I REPEAT: You cannot stop until you eliminate all of these test warnings:

"ERROR: Coverage for lines does not meet global threshold (90%)"
"ERROR: Coverage for functions does not meet global threshold (90%)"
"ERROR: Coverage for statements does not meet global threshold (90%)"
"ERROR: Coverage for branches does not meet global threshold (90%)"

I REPEAT: You cannot stop until you eliminate all of these test warnings above for both Front AND Backend tests.

Commit message:

🔧 [build] Integrates new ESLint plugins and stricter test linting
- Adds several ESLint plugins for improved code quality, including rules for deprecated APIs, SQL formatting, explicit type exports, top-level variable restrictions, and error handling.
- Configures stricter linting for dedicated test directories to enforce best practices and full type checking.
- Updates documentation to specify strict test file locations for new coverage efforts.
- Refactors test mocks to use EventTarget instead of EventEmitter for better cross-platform compatibility.
- Introduces utility scripts to convert PascalCase filenames to camelCase and to extract all test names for improved test management and visibility.
- Updates package dependencies to reflect new tooling requirements and bumps project version for release alignment.

Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

.github/prompts/Generate-100%-Test-Coverage.prompt.md, after:

---
mode: "agent"
tools: ['All Tools']
description: "Generate 100% Test Coverage"
---

# Review All Coverage and Test Files

## Workflow

1. **Fix all broken tests first.**
2. Run and check current test errors and warnings:
   - `npm run test`
   - `npm run test:electron`
3. Ensure all tests pass with no errors or warnings.
4. Check coverage and create tests for files below 90% (or 100% if above 90%):
   - `npm run test:coverage`
   - `npm run test:electron:coverage`
5. Scan source code to create intelligent tests for all branches and edge cases.
6. Ensure comprehensive tests for all edge cases.
7. Use unlimited requests and time as needed.
8. **Do not skip any files**, regardless of size or perceived triviality.
9. Continue until all files reach 90% (or 100% if above 90%) coverage for branch, line, function, and statement.
10. Do not stop, even if the process is lengthy.
11. All new test files should be created in `tests/strictTests/` directory, under electron, shared, or src directories as appropriate.

## Test Creation Rules

### General Guidelines

1. **Aim for clarity and simplicity** in your tests. They should be easy to read and understand.
2. **Test one thing at a time**. If a test is failing, you should be able to pinpoint the exact cause.
3. **Use descriptive names** for your tests. This will make it easier to understand what is being tested and why.
4. **Vitest Features are useful** for creating more effective tests. Familiarize yourself with them to enhance your testing strategy.
5. Use the following vitest features as they improve testing:

- Vitest Expect (Required)
- Vitest It (Required)
- Vitest Describe (Required)
- Vitest Bench (Optional (Recommended for performance testing))
- Vitest Mock (Optional (Recommended for mocking dependencies))
- Vitest Task (Optional (Recommended for managing test metadata))
- Vitest Annotate (Optional (Recommended for adding metadata to tests))
- Vitest Signal (Optional (Recommended for creating test signals))
- Vitest Snapshot (Optional (Recommended for creating test snapshots))

6. Always pull the links below for more detailed information or examples.
7. You can use CLI to filter test files by name, so you can test specific files:
   - Example: `npx vitest basic`: Will only execute test files that contain basic: `basic.test.ts` `basic-foo.test.ts` `basic/foo.test.ts`

### Vitest API Reference

- [Vitest API Reference](https://vitest.dev/api/)

#### Test Context

- `expect`: Assertions
- `describe`: Group tests
- `it`: Individual tests
- `skip`: Skip tests
- `task`: Metadata about the test
- `annotate`: Add metadata to tests
- `signal`: Create test signals

- [Vitest Test Context](https://vitest.dev/guide/test-context.html)

#### Type Testing

- Not required, but if used, ensure no type errors.
- Use `expectTypeOf` or `assertType` for type tests.
- [Vitest Type Testing](https://vitest.dev/guide/testing-types.html)

#### Test Mocking

- Use `vi.mock()` to mock dependencies.
- Reset mocks between tests: `vi.resetAllMocks()` or `vi.restoreAllMocks()`.
- Use `vi.fn()` for mock functions.
- [Vitest Mocking](https://vitest.dev/guide/mocking.html)

#### Test Benchmarking

- Use `vi.bench()` for benchmarks.
- Isolate benchmarks.
- Use `vi.fn()` for mock functions in benchmarks.
- [Vitest Benchmarking](https://vitest.dev/guide/benchmarking.html)

#### Test Snapshotting

- Use `toMatchSnapshot` for object/component snapshots (not recommended).
- Use `toMatchInlineSnapshot()` for inline snapshots (recommended if needed).
- [Vitest Snapshotting](https://vitest.dev/guide/snapshot.html)

## Special Instructions

- **Ignore coverage for console statements, logging, barrel exports, constants, and development-only features.**
- Focus on functional code and logic.
- Cover all edge cases where applicable.
- If something is too hard to test or mock:
  - Create a documentation file explaining why it is not covered.
  - Document edge cases and suggest improvements for testability.
- **If you discover a legitimate bug or issue while writing tests:**
  - Document it in a separate file.
  - Fix the codebase as appropriate (only if 100% sure).

## Requirements

- 90% branch, line, function, and statement coverage for all files (100% if above 90% already).
- Create tests for all files below 90% coverage until all files are covered.

## If Attachments Are Present

- They are problems identified in test runs that need to be fixed.
- If nothing attached, start with `npm run test` to fix broken tests.
- If no tests are broken, use `npm run test:coverage` and add testing to the uncovered areas.

---

### Important AI Note

- **Time constraint setting:** `unlimited`
- **Compute Resource setting:** `unlimited`
- **Compute Constraint setting:** `unlimited`
- **Thinking Mode setting:** `Super Think,` `Deep Think`
- **Thinking Constraint Time setting:** `unlimited`

---

## All Possible Test API to Use

### Test

- `test.extend`
- `test.skip`
- `test.skipIf`
- `test.runIf`
- `test.only`
- `test.concurrent`
- `test.sequential`
- `test.todo`
- `test.fails`
- `test.each`
- `test.for`

### Bench

- `bench`
- `bench.skip`
- `bench.only`
- `bench.todo`

### Describe

- `describe`
- `describe.skip`
- `describe.skipIf`
- `describe.runIf`
- `describe.only`
- `describe.concurrent`
- `describe.sequential`
- `describe.shuffle`
- `describe.todo`
- `describe.each`
- `describe.for`

### Setup and Teardown

- `beforeEach`
- `afterEach`
- `beforeAll`
- `afterAll`

### Test Hooks

- `onTestFinished`
- `onTestFailed`

## Test Assertions

- A long list can be found here: [Vitest Test Assertion API](https://vitest.dev/api/assert.html)

You cannot stop until you eliminate all of these test warnings:

I REPEAT: You cannot stop until you eliminate all of these test warnings:

"ERROR: Coverage for lines does not meet global threshold (90%)"
"ERROR: Coverage for functions does not meet global threshold (90%)"
"ERROR: Coverage for statements does not meet global threshold (90%)"
"ERROR: Coverage for branches does not meet global threshold (90%)"

I REPEAT: You cannot stop until you eliminate all of these test warnings above for both Front AND Backend tests.
