.github/prompts/Generate-100%-Fast-Check-Fuzzing-Test-Coverage.2.prompt.md, before:

---
agent: "BeastMode"
tools: ['edit/createFile', 'edit/createDirectory', 'edit/editFiles', 'search/fileSearch', 'search/textSearch', 'search/listDirectory', 'search/readFile', 'search/codebase', 'runCommands/getTerminalOutput', 'runCommands/terminalLastCommand', 'runCommands/runInTerminal', 'runTasks/runTask', 'runTasks/getTaskOutput', 'Tavily-Remote-MCP/tavily_extract', 'Tavily-Remote-MCP/tavily_search', 'electron-mcp-server/get_electron_window_info', 'electron-mcp-server/send_command_to_electron', 'electron-mcp-server/take_screenshot', 'vscode-mcp/get_diagnostics', 'vscode-mcp/get_references', 'vscode-mcp/get_symbol_lsp_info', 'vscode-mcp/rename_symbol', 'runSubagent', 'usages', 'problems', 'changes', 'testFailure', 'fetch', 'ms-vscode.vscode-websearchforcopilot/websearch', 'todos', 'runTests']

description: "Generate 100% Fast-Check Fuzzing Test Coverage"
---

You are a testing specialist AI assistant tasked with achieving 100% Fast-Check fuzzing test coverage for a TypeScript/JavaScript project. You will systematically fix broken tests and create comprehensive fuzzing tests using Fast-Check to reach 95-100% coverage across all metrics.

## Primary Objective

Generate comprehensive Fast-Check fuzzing test coverage for the project in the project_directory. Your goal is to achieve 95% minimum coverage (or 100% if already above 95%) for branches, lines, functions, and statements across all test suites.

## Core Workflow

### Phase 1: Fix Existing Issues
1. **Fix all broken tests first** - Run `npm run test`, `npm run test:electron`, `npm run test:shared` and resolve all failures
2. **Resolve TypeScript errors** - Run `npm run type-check:test` and fix all type issues
3. **Fix linting issues** - Run `npm run lint:fix` to resolve code style problems
4. **Verify all tests pass** - Do not proceed until all existing tests run without errors or warnings

### Phase 2: Coverage Analysis and Test Generation
1. **Analyze current coverage** - Run coverage commands:
   - `npm run test:coverage`
   - `npm run test:electron:coverage`
   - `npm run test:shared:coverage`
2. **Identify low-coverage files** - Use `node scripts/analyze-coverage.mjs --limit 5` to find files needing attention
3. **Prioritize by lowest coverage first** - Start with files having the lowest coverage percentages
4. **Create Fast-Check fuzzing tests** - Focus heavily on using https://fast-check.dev/ and @fast-check/vitest integration

## Fast-Check Implementation Requirements

### Primary Tools (Use Extensively)
- **@fast-check/vitest** - Your primary fuzzing framework (https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fast-check/vitest)
- **fast-check core** - For advanced fuzzing patterns (https://fast-check.dev/)
- **zod-fast-check** - For Zod schema testing when applicable (https://www.npmjs.com/package/zod-fast-check)

### Fast-Check Resources to Reference
- Core concepts: https://fast-check.dev/docs/core-blocks/
- Properties: https://fast-check.dev/docs/core-blocks/properties/
- Arbitraries: https://fast-check.dev/docs/core-blocks/arbitraries/
- Runners: https://fast-check.dev/docs/core-blocks/runners/
- Advanced patterns: https://fast-check.dev/docs/advanced/
- Model-based testing: https://fast-check.dev/docs/advanced/model-based-testing/

## Test Creation Guidelines

### Vitest Integration Requirements
- **Extend existing test files** rather than creating new ones unless absolutely necessary
- Use comprehensive Vitest API features:
  - `describe`, `it`, `test` for structure
  - `vi.mock()`, `vi.fn()` for mocking
  - `vi.resetAllMocks()` between tests
  - `expectTypeOf`, `assertType` for type testing
  - `vi.bench()` for performance testing
  - `toMatchInlineSnapshot()` for snapshots when needed

### Coverage Strategy
- **Target 95% minimum** for all metrics (branch, line, function, statement)
- **Achieve 100%** if file already above 95%
- **Focus on functional code** - ignore console statements, logging, barrel exports, constants, development-only features
- **Test all edge cases** and error conditions
- **Use property-based testing** with Fast-Check for comprehensive input validation

### Quality Standards
- Write clear, descriptive test names
- Test one concept per test case
- Use Fast-Check arbitraries to generate diverse test inputs
- Mock external dependencies appropriately
- Ensure no TypeScript errors in test files
- Document any untestable code with explanations

## Success Criteria

You must continue until you eliminate ALL of these coverage warnings:
- "ERROR: Coverage for lines does not meet global threshold (95%)"
- "ERROR: Coverage for functions does not meet global threshold (95%)"
- "ERROR: Coverage for statements does not meet global threshold (95%)"
- "ERROR: Coverage for branches does not meet global threshold (95%)"

This applies to ALL test suites (main, electron, and shared).

## Special Handling

### If You Discover Bugs
- Document findings in a separate file
- Fix only if 100% certain of the solution
- Note the issue clearly for developer review

### For Difficult-to-Test Code
- Create documentation explaining why coverage is not achievable
- Document edge cases and suggest testability improvements
- Focus efforts on testable portions

## Output Requirements

Your response should include:
1. **Current Status Assessment** - What you found when analyzing the project
2. **Test Execution Results** - Results from running existing tests and coverage analysis
3. **Implementation Plan** - Specific files you will target and testing strategies
4. **Fast-Check Integration Details** - How you will use fuzzing to improve coverage
5. **Progress Updates** - Regular status updates as you work through files
6. **Final Coverage Report** - Confirmation that all coverage thresholds are met

Begin by examining the project_directory, running the initial test commands, and providing a comprehensive assessment of the current testing state and your implementation strategy.

Commit message:

👷 [ci] Refine BeastMode automation prompts, add TODO workflows, add wiki schema, and tweak configs  - 📝 [docs] Add .github/prompts/Add-ToDo.prompt.md — detailed TODO creation workflow and storage guidance (TODO.md)  - 📝 [docs] Add .github/prompts/Continue.prompt.md — continuation checklist for resuming and completing TODO items  - 👷 [ci] Update .github/agents/BeastMode.agent.md — split ToDo flow: reference Add-ToDo and new Continue prompts, adjust prompts/labels  - 📝 [docs] Clarify scope in several prompts (Consistency-Check and Generate-100%* files) by inserting a generic note about usage and scope  - 🧹 [chore] Add config/schemas/devin-wiki.schema.json and reference it from .devin/wiki.json to enable JSON-schema validation for the wiki  - 🔧 [build] Update vite.config.ts to exclude "**/assets/**" from scanning to avoid processing static asset folders  - 📝 [docs] Minor header doc tweak in eslint.config.mjs (add @see link for schema reference)
Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

.github/prompts/Generate-100%-Fast-Check-Fuzzing-Test-Coverage.2.prompt.md, after:

---
agent: "BeastMode"
tools: ['edit/createFile', 'edit/createDirectory', 'edit/editFiles', 'search/fileSearch', 'search/textSearch', 'search/listDirectory', 'search/readFile', 'search/codebase', 'runCommands/getTerminalOutput', 'runCommands/terminalLastCommand', 'runCommands/runInTerminal', 'runTasks/runTask', 'runTasks/getTaskOutput', 'Tavily-Remote-MCP/tavily_extract', 'Tavily-Remote-MCP/tavily_search', 'electron-mcp-server/get_electron_window_info', 'electron-mcp-server/send_command_to_electron', 'electron-mcp-server/take_screenshot', 'vscode-mcp/get_diagnostics', 'vscode-mcp/get_references', 'vscode-mcp/get_symbol_lsp_info', 'vscode-mcp/rename_symbol', 'runSubagent', 'usages', 'problems', 'changes', 'testFailure', 'fetch', 'ms-vscode.vscode-websearchforcopilot/websearch', 'todos', 'runTests']

description: "Generate 100% Fast-Check Fuzzing Test Coverage"
---
*Note: This is a generic prompt to achieve complete Playwright test coverage for a JavaScript/TypeScript project. You might have to adapt based on the current state of the codebase or recent changes. Use unlimited time and requests as needed.*

You are a testing specialist AI assistant tasked with achieving 100% Fast-Check fuzzing test coverage for a TypeScript/JavaScript project. You will systematically fix broken tests and create comprehensive fuzzing tests using Fast-Check to reach 95-100% coverage across all metrics.

## Primary Objective

Generate comprehensive Fast-Check fuzzing test coverage for the project in the project_directory. Your goal is to achieve 95% minimum coverage (or 100% if already above 95%) for branches, lines, functions, and statements across all test suites.

## Core Workflow

### Phase 1: Fix Existing Issues
1. **Fix all broken tests first** - Run `npm run test`, `npm run test:electron`, `npm run test:shared` and resolve all failures
2. **Resolve TypeScript errors** - Run `npm run type-check:test` and fix all type issues
3. **Fix linting issues** - Run `npm run lint:fix` to resolve code style problems
4. **Verify all tests pass** - Do not proceed until all existing tests run without errors or warnings

### Phase 2: Coverage Analysis and Test Generation
1. **Analyze current coverage** - Run coverage commands:
   - `npm run test:coverage`
   - `npm run test:electron:coverage`
   - `npm run test:shared:coverage`
2. **Identify low-coverage files** - Use `node scripts/analyze-coverage.mjs --limit 5` to find files needing attention
3. **Prioritize by lowest coverage first** - Start with files having the lowest coverage percentages
4. **Create Fast-Check fuzzing tests** - Focus heavily on using https://fast-check.dev/ and @fast-check/vitest integration

## Fast-Check Implementation Requirements

### Primary Tools (Use Extensively)
- **@fast-check/vitest** - Your primary fuzzing framework (https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fast-check/vitest)
- **fast-check core** - For advanced fuzzing patterns (https://fast-check.dev/)
- **zod-fast-check** - For Zod schema testing when applicable (https://www.npmjs.com/package/zod-fast-check)

### Fast-Check Resources to Reference
- Core concepts: https://fast-check.dev/docs/core-blocks/
- Properties: https://fast-check.dev/docs/core-blocks/properties/
- Arbitraries: https://fast-check.dev/docs/core-blocks/arbitraries/
- Runners: https://fast-check.dev/docs/core-blocks/runners/
- Advanced patterns: https://fast-check.dev/docs/advanced/
- Model-based testing: https://fast-check.dev/docs/advanced/model-based-testing/

## Test Creation Guidelines

### Vitest Integration Requirements
- **Extend existing test files** rather than creating new ones unless absolutely necessary
- Use comprehensive Vitest API features:
  - `describe`, `it`, `test` for structure
  - `vi.mock()`, `vi.fn()` for mocking
  - `vi.resetAllMocks()` between tests
  - `expectTypeOf`, `assertType` for type testing
  - `vi.bench()` for performance testing
  - `toMatchInlineSnapshot()` for snapshots when needed

### Coverage Strategy
- **Target 95% minimum** for all metrics (branch, line, function, statement)
- **Achieve 100%** if file already above 95%
- **Focus on functional code** - ignore console statements, logging, barrel exports, constants, development-only features
- **Test all edge cases** and error conditions
- **Use property-based testing** with Fast-Check for comprehensive input validation

### Quality Standards
- Write clear, descriptive test names
- Test one concept per test case
- Use Fast-Check arbitraries to generate diverse test inputs
- Mock external dependencies appropriately
- Ensure no TypeScript errors in test files
- Document any untestable code with explanations

## Success Criteria

You must continue until you eliminate ALL of these coverage warnings:
- "ERROR: Coverage for lines does not meet global threshold (95%)"
- "ERROR: Coverage for functions does not meet global threshold (95%)"
- "ERROR: Coverage for statements does not meet global threshold (95%)"
- "ERROR: Coverage for branches does not meet global threshold (95%)"

This applies to ALL test suites (main, electron, and shared).

## Special Handling

### If You Discover Bugs
- Document findings in a separate file
- Fix only if 100% certain of the solution
- Note the issue clearly for developer review

### For Difficult-to-Test Code
- Create documentation explaining why coverage is not achievable
- Document edge cases and suggest testability improvements
- Focus efforts on testable portions

## Output Requirements

Your response should include:
1. **Current Status Assessment** - What you found when analyzing the project
2. **Test Execution Results** - Results from running existing tests and coverage analysis
3. **Implementation Plan** - Specific files you will target and testing strategies
4. **Fast-Check Integration Details** - How you will use fuzzing to improve coverage
5. **Progress Updates** - Regular status updates as you work through files
6. **Final Coverage Report** - Confirmation that all coverage thresholds are met

Begin by examining the project_directory, running the initial test commands, and providing a comprehensive assessment of the current testing state and your implementation strategy.
