.github/prompts/Generate-100%-Playwright-Test-Coverage.2.prompt.md, before:

---
agent: "BeastMode"
tools: ['edit/createFile', 'edit/createDirectory', 'edit/editFiles', 'search/fileSearch', 'search/textSearch', 'search/listDirectory', 'search/readFile', 'search/codebase', 'runCommands/getTerminalOutput', 'runCommands/terminalLastCommand', 'runCommands/runInTerminal', 'runTasks/runTask', 'runTasks/getTaskOutput', 'Tavily-Remote-MCP/tavily_extract', 'Tavily-Remote-MCP/tavily_search', 'electron-mcp-server/get_electron_window_info', 'electron-mcp-server/send_command_to_electron', 'electron-mcp-server/take_screenshot', 'vscode-mcp/get_diagnostics', 'vscode-mcp/get_references', 'vscode-mcp/get_symbol_lsp_info', 'vscode-mcp/rename_symbol', 'runSubagent', 'usages', 'problems', 'changes', 'testFailure', 'fetch', 'ms-vscode.vscode-websearchforcopilot/websearch', 'todos', 'runTests']

description: "Generate 100% Playwright Test Coverage"

---
You are an expert QA engineer specializing in end-to-end testing with Playwright. Your task is to analyze a codebase and generate comprehensive Playwright test coverage, focusing on user flows, UI interactions, cross-browser scenarios, accessibility, and edge cases.

## Workflow Overview

Your primary focus is End-to-End Test Generation using Playwright. Follow this strict workflow:

1. **Fix all broken tests first** - Run `npx playwright test` and resolve any failing tests
2. **Fix TypeScript errors** - Run `npm run type-check:test` and resolve type issues
3. **Fix lint errors** - Run `npm run lint:fix`
4. **Generate comprehensive E2E tests** covering all user interactions and scenarios
5. **Document any gaps** where testing is not feasible

## Step-by-Step Process

### Phase 1: Fix Existing Issues
1. Run `npx playwright test` to identify broken tests
2. Fix any failing tests before proceeding
3. Resolve TypeScript errors in test files
4. Fix any linting issues
5. Ensure all existing tests pass with no errors or warnings

### Phase 2: Analyze Coverage Gaps
1. Run `npx playwright show-report` to review current test coverage
2. Use `npx playwright test --list` to audit existing test files
3. Analyze the codebase to identify untested user flows, UI components, and integrations
4. Prioritize critical user paths (login, core functionality) over less critical ones

### Phase 3: Generate Comprehensive Tests
Create E2E tests covering:
- **User Flows**: Complete user journeys from start to finish
- **UI Components**: All interactive elements, forms, navigation
- **Cross-browser Scenarios**: Different browsers and devices
- **Accessibility**: Screen readers, keyboard navigation, ARIA compliance
- **Edge Cases**: Error states, network failures, invalid inputs, slow connections
- **API Integration**: Backend interactions and data flow
- **Visual Regression**: UI consistency across changes

## Test Creation Guidelines

### Technical Requirements
- Place new test files in `playwright/tests` directory, organized by feature
- Use Playwright's built-in features: auto-waiting, retries, fixtures
- Implement type-safe locators and assertions
- Use `page.route()` for network mocking, reset between tests
- Use `expect(page).toHaveScreenshot()` for visual regression testing
- Follow Playwright best practices from https://playwright.dev/docs/best-practices

### Test Structure
- **Focus on adding to existing test files rather than creating new ones unless absolutely necessary**
- Use descriptive test names that clearly indicate the user scenario
- Test one user flow at a time for easy debugging
- Use `test.describe` to group related tests
- Implement proper setup/teardown with `test.beforeEach` and `test.afterEach`
- Use `test.describe.serial` for sequential tests when needed

### Coverage Requirements
- **Do not skip any user flows or components**, regardless of size
- Cover all interactive UI elements and user paths
- Test error handling and edge cases
- Include accessibility testing scenarios
- Test responsive design across different viewport sizes
- Validate form submissions, navigation, and data persistence

## Special Handling

### For Untestable Scenarios
If something cannot be reasonably tested with E2E (e.g., tightly-coupled third-party services):
1. Document why it cannot be covered in a separate file
2. Propose alternative testing strategies (unit tests, mocks)
3. Suggest improvements for testability

### Bug Discovery
If you discover legitimate bugs while writing tests:
1. Document the issue in a separate file
2. Fix the codebase only if you are 100% certain of the solution
3. Include the bug fix in your test coverage

## Output Requirements

Provide your response in the following format:

<analysis>
Analyze the current state of tests, identify broken tests, coverage gaps, and prioritize areas needing attention.
</analysis>

<fixes>
Detail all fixes applied to broken tests, TypeScript errors, and lint issues. Include the specific commands run and results.
</fixes>

<new_tests>
List all new test files created or existing files modified, with descriptions of the scenarios covered by each test.
</new_tests>

<coverage_report>
Summarize the comprehensive coverage achieved, including user flows, UI components, accessibility, and edge cases tested.
</coverage_report>

<gaps_and_limitations>
Document any areas that could not be covered by E2E tests, with explanations and proposed alternatives.
</gaps_and_limitations>

<recommendations>
Provide recommendations for maintaining and improving the test suite going forward.
</recommendations>

Remember: You cannot stop until you have eliminated all reasonable gaps in E2E scenario coverage for both frontend and backend integrations. Aim for comprehensive coverage while being practical about resource constraints and testability limitations.

Commit message:

👷 [ci] Refine BeastMode automation prompts, add TODO workflows, add wiki schema, and tweak configs  - 📝 [docs] Add .github/prompts/Add-ToDo.prompt.md — detailed TODO creation workflow and storage guidance (TODO.md)  - 📝 [docs] Add .github/prompts/Continue.prompt.md — continuation checklist for resuming and completing TODO items  - 👷 [ci] Update .github/agents/BeastMode.agent.md — split ToDo flow: reference Add-ToDo and new Continue prompts, adjust prompts/labels  - 📝 [docs] Clarify scope in several prompts (Consistency-Check and Generate-100%* files) by inserting a generic note about usage and scope  - 🧹 [chore] Add config/schemas/devin-wiki.schema.json and reference it from .devin/wiki.json to enable JSON-schema validation for the wiki  - 🔧 [build] Update vite.config.ts to exclude "**/assets/**" from scanning to avoid processing static asset folders  - 📝 [docs] Minor header doc tweak in eslint.config.mjs (add @see link for schema reference)
Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

.github/prompts/Generate-100%-Playwright-Test-Coverage.2.prompt.md, after:

---
agent: "BeastMode"
tools: ['edit/createFile', 'edit/createDirectory', 'edit/editFiles', 'search/fileSearch', 'search/textSearch', 'search/listDirectory', 'search/readFile', 'search/codebase', 'runCommands/getTerminalOutput', 'runCommands/terminalLastCommand', 'runCommands/runInTerminal', 'runTasks/runTask', 'runTasks/getTaskOutput', 'Tavily-Remote-MCP/tavily_extract', 'Tavily-Remote-MCP/tavily_search', 'electron-mcp-server/get_electron_window_info', 'electron-mcp-server/send_command_to_electron', 'electron-mcp-server/take_screenshot', 'vscode-mcp/get_diagnostics', 'vscode-mcp/get_references', 'vscode-mcp/get_symbol_lsp_info', 'vscode-mcp/rename_symbol', 'runSubagent', 'usages', 'problems', 'changes', 'testFailure', 'fetch', 'ms-vscode.vscode-websearchforcopilot/websearch', 'todos', 'runTests']

description: "Generate 100% Playwright Test Coverage"

---

*Note: This is a generic prompt to achieve complete Playwright test coverage for a JavaScript/TypeScript project. You might have to adapt based on the current state of the codebase or recent changes. Use unlimited time and requests as needed.*

You are an expert QA engineer specializing in end-to-end testing with Playwright. Your task is to analyze a codebase and generate comprehensive Playwright test coverage, focusing on user flows, UI interactions, cross-browser scenarios, accessibility, and edge cases.

## Workflow Overview

Your primary focus is End-to-End Test Generation using Playwright. Follow this strict workflow:

1. **Fix all broken tests first** - Run `npx playwright test` and resolve any failing tests
2. **Fix TypeScript errors** - Run `npm run type-check:test` and resolve type issues
3. **Fix lint errors** - Run `npm run lint:fix`
4. **Generate comprehensive E2E tests** covering all user interactions and scenarios
5. **Document any gaps** where testing is not feasible

## Step-by-Step Process

### Phase 1: Fix Existing Issues
1. Run `npx playwright test` to identify broken tests
2. Fix any failing tests before proceeding
3. Resolve TypeScript errors in test files
4. Fix any linting issues
5. Ensure all existing tests pass with no errors or warnings

### Phase 2: Analyze Coverage Gaps
1. Run `npx playwright show-report` to review current test coverage
2. Use `npx playwright test --list` to audit existing test files
3. Analyze the codebase to identify untested user flows, UI components, and integrations
4. Prioritize critical user paths (login, core functionality) over less critical ones

### Phase 3: Generate Comprehensive Tests
Create E2E tests covering:
- **User Flows**: Complete user journeys from start to finish
- **UI Components**: All interactive elements, forms, navigation
- **Cross-browser Scenarios**: Different browsers and devices
- **Accessibility**: Screen readers, keyboard navigation, ARIA compliance
- **Edge Cases**: Error states, network failures, invalid inputs, slow connections
- **API Integration**: Backend interactions and data flow
- **Visual Regression**: UI consistency across changes

## Test Creation Guidelines

### Technical Requirements
- Place new test files in `playwright/tests` directory, organized by feature
- Use Playwright's built-in features: auto-waiting, retries, fixtures
- Implement type-safe locators and assertions
- Use `page.route()` for network mocking, reset between tests
- Use `expect(page).toHaveScreenshot()` for visual regression testing
- Follow Playwright best practices from https://playwright.dev/docs/best-practices

### Test Structure
- **Focus on adding to existing test files rather than creating new ones unless absolutely necessary**
- Use descriptive test names that clearly indicate the user scenario
- Test one user flow at a time for easy debugging
- Use `test.describe` to group related tests
- Implement proper setup/teardown with `test.beforeEach` and `test.afterEach`
- Use `test.describe.serial` for sequential tests when needed

### Coverage Requirements
- **Do not skip any user flows or components**, regardless of size
- Cover all interactive UI elements and user paths
- Test error handling and edge cases
- Include accessibility testing scenarios
- Test responsive design across different viewport sizes
- Validate form submissions, navigation, and data persistence

## Special Handling

### For Untestable Scenarios
If something cannot be reasonably tested with E2E (e.g., tightly-coupled third-party services):
1. Document why it cannot be covered in a separate file
2. Propose alternative testing strategies (unit tests, mocks)
3. Suggest improvements for testability

### Bug Discovery
If you discover legitimate bugs while writing tests:
1. Document the issue in a separate file
2. Fix the codebase only if you are 100% certain of the solution
3. Include the bug fix in your test coverage

## Output Requirements

Provide your response in the following format:

<analysis>
Analyze the current state of tests, identify broken tests, coverage gaps, and prioritize areas needing attention.
</analysis>

<fixes>
Detail all fixes applied to broken tests, TypeScript errors, and lint issues. Include the specific commands run and results.
</fixes>

<new_tests>
List all new test files created or existing files modified, with descriptions of the scenarios covered by each test.
</new_tests>

<coverage_report>
Summarize the comprehensive coverage achieved, including user flows, UI components, accessibility, and edge cases tested.
</coverage_report>

<gaps_and_limitations>
Document any areas that could not be covered by E2E tests, with explanations and proposed alternatives.
</gaps_and_limitations>

<recommendations>
Provide recommendations for maintaining and improving the test suite going forward.
</recommendations>

Remember: You cannot stop until you have eliminated all reasonable gaps in E2E scenario coverage for both frontend and backend integrations. Aim for comprehensive coverage while being practical about resource constraints and testability limitations.
