docs/Architecture/Stores/updates.md, before:

---
schema: "../../../config/schemas/doc-frontmatter.schema.json"
title: "Updates store"
summary: "Reference for the renderer store managing app update availability and user-triggered update actions."
created: "2025-12-12"
last_reviewed: "2025-12-12"
category: "guide"
author: "Uptime Watcher Team"
tags:
 - stores
 - updates
 - ui
---

# Updates store

## Purpose

`useUpdatesStore` models update state for:

- update availability (`updateAvailable`, `updateInfo`)
- update workflows (`isCheckingForUpdates`, `isApplyingUpdate`)
- user actions (`checkForUpdates`, `installUpdate`)

## Source

- `src/stores/updates/useUpdatesStore.ts`

## Notes on error state

This store currently keeps `updateError` locally.

That’s acceptable if the UI renders update errors _only_ in the updates surface.
If we decide update errors should participate in the global error surfaces, this
store can be migrated to `useErrorStore` + `createStoreErrorHandler`.

## Integration points

- Any UI that displays update status or triggers update checks.

## Testing

- `src/test/stores/updates/*`

## Architecture notes

This store represents an **application-level workflow** rather than domain
state (sites/monitors). It may keep some UI-local error state (`updateError`)
because the updates UI owns the presentation.

If update failures should appear in global error surfaces, migrate this store to
`useErrorStore` + `createStoreErrorHandler`.

Commit message:

🚜 [refactor] Standardize imports and event documentation
🚜 [refactor] Enforces namespace imports for Node.js built-in modules using `import * as` syntax across the entire codebase to improve consistency and ESM compatibility 📦
 - Updates usage of `node:path`, `node:fs`, `node:crypto`, `node:http`, and `node:tls` in services, scripts, and configuration files 🛠️

📝 [docs] Extensively updates Architectural Decision Records (ADRs) and pattern guides to align with refined event naming conventions 📑
 - Renames plural event topics like `sites:added` to singular `site:added` to strictly follow the `domain:action` standard 🏷️
 - Clarifies state synchronization mechanisms, documenting how internal main-process events are rebroadcast to renderers via the `state-sync-event` IPC channel 📡
 - Refines integration guides for error handling, renderer integration, and lifecycle management to include updated technical contracts 📈

🧹 [chore] Hardens the linting configuration by implementing strict `unicorn/import-style` rules within `eslint.config.mjs` 🧼
 - Adds repository-specific ignore patterns to `.gitignore` and `.remarkignore` to manage Docusaurus build outputs and generated documentation 📁

🛡️ [fix] Optimizes the preload bridge by simplifying event validation guards and stripping redundant metadata reason codes 🔒
 - Updates `WindowService` security notes to detail Chromium sandbox constraints and dependencies within the preload layer 🛡️

🧪 [test] Updates the testing suite, including Vitest configurations and mock bridges, to reflect renamed identifiers and corrected import paths 🧪
 - Adjusts Playwright fixtures and E2E coverage utilities to maintain parity with the updated project structure 🎭

🏗️ [build] Updates Vite and Vitest configuration files to use standardized import patterns for build-time resolution utilities 🏗️

Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/Architecture/Stores/updates.md, after:

---
schema: "../../../config/schemas/doc-frontmatter.schema.json"
title: "Updates store"
summary: "Reference for the renderer store managing app update availability and user-triggered update actions."
created: "2025-12-12"
last_reviewed: "2025-12-12"
category: "guide"
author: "Uptime Watcher Team"
tags:
 - stores
 - updates
 - ui
---

# Updates store

## Purpose

`useUpdatesStore` models update state for:

- update availability (`updateAvailable`, `updateInfo`)
- update workflows (`isCheckingForUpdates`, `isApplyingUpdate`)
- user actions (`checkForUpdates`, `installUpdate`)

## Source

- `src/stores/updates/useUpdatesStore.ts`

## Notes on error state

This store currently keeps `updateError` locally.

That’s acceptable if the UI renders update errors _only_ in the updates surface.
If we decide update errors should participate in the global error surfaces, this
store can be migrated to `useErrorStore` + `createStoreErrorHandler`.

## Integration points

- Any UI that displays update status or triggers update checks.

This store also subscribes to update lifecycle broadcasts emitted from the main
process over the `update-status` renderer event channel (see
`shared/ipc/rendererEvents.ts`). The subscription is established via
`EventsService.onUpdateStatus` inside `subscribeToUpdateStatusEvents()`.

## Testing

- `src/test/stores/updates/*`

## Architecture notes

This store represents an **application-level workflow** rather than domain
state (sites/monitors). It may keep some UI-local error state (`updateError`)
because the updates UI owns the presentation.

If update failures should appear in global error surfaces, migrate this store to
`useErrorStore` + `createStoreErrorHandler`.
