docs/Architecture/ADRs/ADR_002_EVENT_DRIVEN_ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# ADR-002: Event-Driven Architecture with TypedEventBus

## Status

**Accepted** - Core communication mechanism with advanced middleware and memory management

## Context

The application needed a way to decouple components and enable reactive communication between:

- Backend services and frontend UI
- Different services within the backend
- Multiple UI components reacting to state changes
- Cross-cutting concerns like logging, monitoring, and error handling

Traditional direct method calls would create tight coupling, make the system difficult to extend and test, and provide no mechanism for monitoring or debugging inter-component communication.

## Decision

We will use an **Event-Driven Architecture** based on a custom `TypedEventBus` with the following characteristics:

### Event propagation overview

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    participant Service as Monitoring Service
    participant EventBus as TypedEventBus
    participant Middleware as Middleware Chain
    participant IPC as Secure IPC Bridge
    participant Renderer as Renderer Store/UI

    Service->>EventBus: emitTyped("monitor:status-changed")
    EventBus->>Middleware: Attach metadata & correlation IDs
    Middleware->>Middleware: Logging / validation / rate limiting
    Middleware->>EventBus: next()
    EventBus->>IPC: Forward typed payload
    IPC->>Renderer: Dispatch typed handler
    Renderer->>Renderer: Update store & surface UI changes
```

### 1. Enhanced Type Safety

```typescript
interface UptimeEvents extends Record<string, unknown> {
 "sites:added": {
  site: Site;
  timestamp: number;
  correlationId: string;
 };
 "monitor:status-changed": {
  monitor: Monitor;
  newStatus: "up" | "down";
  previousStatus: "up" | "down";
  timestamp: number;
  responseTime?: number;
  error?: string;
 };
 "database:transaction-completed": {
  duration: number;
  operation: string;
  success: boolean;
  timestamp: number;
 };
 "system:error": {
  error: Error;
  context: string;
  severity: "low" | "medium" | "high" | "critical";
  recovery?: string;
  timestamp: number;
 };
}

// Usage with compile-time type checking
await eventBus.emitTyped("sites:added", {
 site: newSite,
 timestamp: Date.now(),
 correlationId: generateCorrelationId(),
});
```

### 2. Advanced Metadata and Correlation

- **Unique correlation IDs** for request tracing across system boundaries
- **Automatic timestamps** for event ordering and debugging
- **Bus identification** for multi-bus architectures
- **Event metadata** enrichment for comprehensive monitoring

### 3. Consistent Event Naming

- **Domain-based naming**: `domain:action` (e.g., `sites:added`, `monitor:status-changed`)
- **Hierarchical structure**: Major category followed by specific action
- **Past tense verbs** for completed actions

### 4. Production-Ready Middleware Support

```typescript
// Logging middleware with correlation tracking
eventBus.use(async (eventName, data, next) => {
 const correlationId = data._meta?.correlationId;
 logger.debug(`[Event] ${eventName} [${correlationId}]`, data);
 await next();
 logger.debug(`[Event] ${eventName} completed [${correlationId}]`);
});

// Rate limiting middleware
eventBus.use(
 createRateLimitMiddleware({
  maxEventsPerSecond: 100,
  burstLimit: 10,
  onRateLimit: (eventName, data) => {
   logger.warn(`Rate limit exceeded for ${eventName}`);
  },
 })
);

// Validation middleware
eventBus.use(
 createValidationMiddleware({
  "monitor:status-changed": (data) => validateMonitorStatusData(data),
  "sites:added": (data) => validateSiteData(data),
 })
);
```

### 5. Memory-Safe IPC Event Forwarding

Events are automatically forwarded from backend to frontend with proper cleanup:

```typescript
// Backend emits event with automatic IPC forwarding
await this.eventBus.emitTyped("monitor:status-changed", eventData);

// Frontend receives with automatic cleanup functions
const cleanup = window.electronAPI.events.onMonitorStatusChanged((data) => {
 // Handle event
});

// Cleanup prevents memory leaks
useEffect(() => cleanup, []);
```

### 6. Advanced Memory Management

- **Max listeners**: Configurable limit (default: 50) prevents memory leaks
- **Automatic cleanup**: All event listeners provide cleanup functions
- **Middleware limits**: Configurable middleware chain size (default: 20)
- **Event validation**: Type-safe event structures prevent runtime errors

## Architecture Flow

```mermaid
Backend Service → TypedEventBus → IPC → Frontend Store → UI Update
     ↓
Other Backend Services (via event listeners)
```

## Event Categories

### 1. Site Events

**Public Events:**

- `site:added` - When a site is successfully added
- `site:updated` - When site properties are modified
- `site:removed` - When a site is deleted
- `sites:state-synchronized` - When frontend and backend state are synchronized
- `site:cache-updated` - When site cache is refreshed
- `site:cache-miss` - When cache lookup fails

**Internal Events:**

- `internal:site:added` - Internal site creation events
- `internal:site:updated` - Internal site modification events
- `internal:site:removed` - Internal site deletion events
- `internal:site:cache-updated` - Internal cache management
- `internal:site:start-monitoring-requested` - Internal monitoring control
- `internal:site:stop-monitoring-requested` - Internal monitoring control
- `internal:site:restart-monitoring-requested` - Internal monitoring control
- `internal:site:restart-monitoring-response` - Internal monitoring responses
- `internal:site:is-monitoring-active-requested` - Internal status queries
- `internal:site:is-monitoring-active-response` - Internal status responses

### 2. Monitor Events

**Public Events:**

- `monitor:added` - When a monitor is created
- `monitor:removed` - When a monitor is deleted
- `monitor:status-changed` - When monitor status changes
- `monitor:up` - When monitor detects service is online
- `monitor:down` - When monitor detects service is offline
- `monitor:check-completed` - When a health check finishes

**Internal Events:**

- `internal:monitor:started` - Internal monitor activation
- `internal:monitor:stopped` - Internal monitor deactivation
- `internal:monitor:all-started` - When all monitors are activated
- `internal:monitor:all-stopped` - When all monitors are deactivated
- `internal:monitor:manual-check-completed` - Manual check results
- `internal:monitor:site-setup-completed` - Site monitor setup completion

### 3. Database Events

- `database:transaction-completed` - When database transactions finish
- `database:error` - When database operations fail
- `database:success` - When database operations succeed
- `database:retry` - When database operations are retried
- `database:backup-created` - When database backups are created

**Internal Database Events:**

- `internal:database:initialized` - Database initialization completion
- `internal:database:data-exported` - Data export completion
- `internal:database:data-imported` - Data import completion
- `internal:database:backup-downloaded` - Backup download completion
- `internal:database:history-limit-updated` - History retention changes
- `internal:database:sites-refreshed` - Site data refresh
- `internal:database:get-sites-from-cache-requested` - Cache requests
- `internal:database:get-sites-from-cache-response` - Cache responses
- `internal:database:update-sites-cache-requested` - Cache update requests

### 4. System Events

- `monitoring:started` - When monitoring system starts
- `monitoring:stopped` - When monitoring system stops
- `system:startup` - Application startup
- `system:shutdown` - Application shutdown
- `system:error` - System-level errors

### 5. Performance and Configuration Events

- `performance:metric` - Performance measurements
- `performance:warning` - Performance threshold alerts
- `config:changed` - Configuration changes
- `cache:invalidated` - Cache invalidation events

## Consequences

### Positive

- **Decoupled architecture** - Components don't need direct references
- **Enhanced type safety** - Compile-time checking prevents runtime errors
- **Extensibility** - Easy to add new event listeners without modifying emitters
- **Advanced debugging** - Correlation IDs and metadata enable comprehensive request tracing
- **Superior testability** - Easy to mock and verify event emissions
- **Memory safety** - Automatic cleanup and configurable limits prevent leaks
- **Production monitoring** - Middleware enables comprehensive observability
- **Cross-cutting concerns** - Logging, validation, and rate limiting handled declaratively

### Negative

- **Initial complexity** - Indirect flow can be harder to follow initially
- **Minimal performance overhead** - Event processing adds negligible latency
- **Learning curve** - Developers need to understand event-driven patterns
- **Debugging complexity** - Async event flows require correlation tracking

## Quality Assurance

### Memory Management

- **Automatic cleanup**: All event listeners return cleanup functions
- **Configurable limits**: Max listeners and middleware prevent resource exhaustion
- **Leak prevention**: Proper cleanup in component unmount lifecycle

### Error Handling

- **Middleware isolation**: Errors in one middleware don't affect others
- **Event validation**: Type-safe structures prevent runtime errors
- **Error propagation**: Failed events don't crash the event bus

### Performance

- **Rate limiting**: Middleware prevents event flooding
- **Efficient forwarding**: IPC events use optimized serialization
- **Minimal overhead**: Event processing designed for production use

## Implementation Requirements

### Event Emission

```typescript
// In services/managers
await this.eventBus.emitTyped("domain:action", {
 // Event-specific data
 timestamp: Date.now(),
 // ... other properties
});
```

### Event Listening

```typescript
// Type-safe event listening
eventBus.onTyped("domain:action", (data) => {
 // data is properly typed
 // _meta is automatically available
});
```

### IPC Integration

```typescript
// Automatic forwarding in IpcService
private async forwardEventToRenderer(eventName: string, data: unknown) {
    this.webContents?.send(eventName, data);
}
```

## Compliance

All communication follows this pattern:

- Service layer emits domain events
- UI components listen to events via IPC
- Database operations emit lifecycle events
- Error handling emits failure events

## Related ADRs

- [ADR-001: Repository Pattern](./ADR_001_REPOSITORY_PATTERN.md)
- [ADR-003: Error Handling Strategy](./ADR_003_ERROR_HANDLING_STRATEGY.md)
- [ADR-004: Frontend State Management](./ADR_004_FRONTEND_STATE_MANAGEMENT.md)

Commit message:

🚜 [refactor] Refactor event emission for site/monitor updates
This commit refactors the event emission process for site and monitor updates to improve consistency and streamline data flow.

- 🔄 **Managers Emit Internal Lifecycle Topics**:
  - `SiteManager` and `MonitorManager` now emit `internal:site:*` and `internal:monitor:*` events for CRUD and monitoring lifecycle operations instead of public events.
  - High-frequency telemetry like `monitor:status-changed` continues to originate directly from `MonitorManager`.
- ➡️ **`UptimeOrchestrator` as Public Source of Truth**:
  - The orchestrator consumes internal lifecycle events, sanitizes metadata, and emits public events (`site:*`, `monitoring:*`, `monitor:*`) plus `cache:invalidated` notifications.
  - Global monitoring transitions now use `{ type: "all" }` for cache invalidation, enabling renderers to perform a full resync.
- 👂 **Frontend Listens Only to Orchestrator Output**:
  - `ApplicationService` subscribes to the orchestrator and uses `RendererEventBridge` to fan out events to windows, ensuring consistent payloads across renderers.
- 🐛 **Fixes**:
  - Ensures that site data is available when `internal:site:removed` is emitted by including the site snapshot in the event data.
  - Handles cases where site data might be missing by providing fallback values and logging warnings.
- 🧪 **Tests**:
  - Updates tests to reflect the new event emission patterns and ensure proper cache invalidation.
  - Adds tests to verify global cache invalidation for bulk monitor start/stop events.
- 📝 **Documentation**:
  - Updates documentation to reflect the layered emission strategy and the role of the `UptimeOrchestrator` as the single source of truth for public events.

Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/Architecture/ADRs/ADR_002_EVENT_DRIVEN_ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# ADR-002: Event-Driven Architecture with TypedEventBus

## Status

**Accepted** - Core communication mechanism with advanced middleware and memory management

## Context

The application needed a way to decouple components and enable reactive communication between:

- Backend services and frontend UI
- Different services within the backend
- Multiple UI components reacting to state changes
- Cross-cutting concerns like logging, monitoring, and error handling

Traditional direct method calls would create tight coupling, make the system difficult to extend and test, and provide no mechanism for monitoring or debugging inter-component communication.

## Decision

We will use an **Event-Driven Architecture** based on a custom `TypedEventBus` with the following characteristics:

### Event propagation overview

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    participant Service as Monitoring Service
    participant EventBus as TypedEventBus
    participant Middleware as Middleware Chain
    participant IPC as Secure IPC Bridge
    participant Renderer as Renderer Store/UI

    Service->>EventBus: emitTyped("monitor:status-changed")
    EventBus->>Middleware: Attach metadata & correlation IDs
    Middleware->>Middleware: Logging / validation / rate limiting
    Middleware->>EventBus: next()
    EventBus->>IPC: Forward typed payload
    IPC->>Renderer: Dispatch typed handler
    Renderer->>Renderer: Update store & surface UI changes
```

### 1. Enhanced Type Safety

```typescript
interface UptimeEvents extends Record<string, unknown> {
 "sites:added": {
  site: Site;
  timestamp: number;
  correlationId: string;
 };
 "monitor:status-changed": {
  monitor: Monitor;
  newStatus: "up" | "down";
  previousStatus: "up" | "down";
  timestamp: number;
  responseTime?: number;
  error?: string;
 };
 "database:transaction-completed": {
  duration: number;
  operation: string;
  success: boolean;
  timestamp: number;
 };
 "system:error": {
  error: Error;
  context: string;
  severity: "low" | "medium" | "high" | "critical";
  recovery?: string;
  timestamp: number;
 };
}

// Usage with compile-time type checking
await eventBus.emitTyped("sites:added", {
 site: newSite,
 timestamp: Date.now(),
 correlationId: generateCorrelationId(),
});
```

### 2. Advanced Metadata and Correlation

- **Unique correlation IDs** for request tracing across system boundaries
- **Automatic timestamps** for event ordering and debugging
- **Bus identification** for multi-bus architectures
- **Event metadata** enrichment for comprehensive monitoring

### 3. Consistent Event Naming

- **Domain-based naming**: `domain:action` (e.g., `sites:added`, `monitor:status-changed`)
- **Hierarchical structure**: Major category followed by specific action
- **Past tense verbs** for completed actions

### 4. Production-Ready Middleware Support

```typescript
// Logging middleware with correlation tracking
eventBus.use(async (eventName, data, next) => {
 const correlationId = data._meta?.correlationId;
 logger.debug(`[Event] ${eventName} [${correlationId}]`, data);
 await next();
 logger.debug(`[Event] ${eventName} completed [${correlationId}]`);
});

// Rate limiting middleware
eventBus.use(
 createRateLimitMiddleware({
  maxEventsPerSecond: 100,
  burstLimit: 10,
  onRateLimit: (eventName, data) => {
   logger.warn(`Rate limit exceeded for ${eventName}`);
  },
 })
);

// Validation middleware
eventBus.use(
 createValidationMiddleware({
  "monitor:status-changed": (data) => validateMonitorStatusData(data),
  "sites:added": (data) => validateSiteData(data),
 })
);
```

### 5. Memory-Safe IPC Event Forwarding

Events are automatically forwarded from backend to frontend with proper cleanup:

```typescript
// Backend emits event with automatic IPC forwarding
await this.eventBus.emitTyped("monitor:status-changed", eventData);

// Frontend receives with automatic cleanup functions
const cleanup = window.electronAPI.events.onMonitorStatusChanged((data) => {
 // Handle event
});

// Cleanup prevents memory leaks
useEffect(() => cleanup, []);
```

### 6. Advanced Memory Management

- **Max listeners**: Configurable limit (default: 50) prevents memory leaks
- **Automatic cleanup**: All event listeners provide cleanup functions
- **Middleware limits**: Configurable middleware chain size (default: 20)
- **Event validation**: Type-safe event structures prevent runtime errors

## Architecture Flow

```mermaid
Backend Service → TypedEventBus → IPC → Frontend Store → UI Update
     ↓
Other Backend Services (via event listeners)
```

## Event Categories

### 1. Site Events

**Public Events:**

- `site:added` - When a site is successfully added
- `site:updated` - When site properties are modified
- `site:removed` - When a site is deleted
- `sites:state-synchronized` - When frontend and backend state are synchronized
- `site:cache-updated` - When site cache is refreshed
- `site:cache-miss` - When cache lookup fails

**Internal Events:**

- `internal:site:added` - Internal site creation events
- `internal:site:updated` - Internal site modification events
- `internal:site:removed` - Internal site deletion events
- `internal:site:cache-updated` - Internal cache management
- `internal:site:start-monitoring-requested` - Internal monitoring control
- `internal:site:stop-monitoring-requested` - Internal monitoring control
- `internal:site:restart-monitoring-requested` - Internal monitoring control
- `internal:site:restart-monitoring-response` - Internal monitoring responses
- `internal:site:is-monitoring-active-requested` - Internal status queries
- `internal:site:is-monitoring-active-response` - Internal status responses

> **Emission flow:** `SiteManager` emits the `internal:site:*` topics for
> lifecycle mutations while the `UptimeOrchestrator` sanitizes and re-emits the
> public `site:*` events. Auxiliary telemetry (e.g. background cache refreshes)
> may still originate from the manager when no additional enrichment is needed.

### 2. Monitor Events

**Public Events:**

- `monitor:added` - When a monitor is created
- `monitor:removed` - When a monitor is deleted
- `monitor:status-changed` - When monitor status changes
- `monitor:up` - When monitor detects service is online
- `monitor:down` - When monitor detects service is offline
- `monitor:check-completed` - When a health check finishes

**Internal Events:**

- `internal:monitor:started` - Internal monitor activation
- `internal:monitor:stopped` - Internal monitor deactivation
- `internal:monitor:all-started` - When all monitors are activated
- `internal:monitor:all-stopped` - When all monitors are deactivated
- `internal:monitor:manual-check-completed` - Manual check results

> **Emission flow:** `MonitorManager` raises `internal:monitor:*` events for
> lifecycle transitions and continues to emit high-frequency telemetry such as
> `monitor:status-changed` directly. The `UptimeOrchestrator` translates the
> lifecycle events into `monitoring:*` plus the canonical `cache:invalidated`
> broadcasts (using `{ type: "all" }` for global transitions).

- `internal:monitor:site-setup-completed` - Site monitor setup completion

### 3. Database Events

- `database:transaction-completed` - When database transactions finish
- `database:error` - When database operations fail
- `database:success` - When database operations succeed
- `database:retry` - When database operations are retried
- `database:backup-created` - When database backups are created

**Internal Database Events:**

- `internal:database:initialized` - Database initialization completion
- `internal:database:data-exported` - Data export completion
- `internal:database:data-imported` - Data import completion
- `internal:database:backup-downloaded` - Backup download completion
- `internal:database:history-limit-updated` - History retention changes
- `internal:database:sites-refreshed` - Site data refresh
- `internal:database:get-sites-from-cache-requested` - Cache requests
- `internal:database:get-sites-from-cache-response` - Cache responses
- `internal:database:update-sites-cache-requested` - Cache update requests

### 4. System Events

- `monitoring:started` - When monitoring system starts
- `monitoring:stopped` - When monitoring system stops
- `system:startup` - Application startup
- `system:shutdown` - Application shutdown
- `system:error` - System-level errors

### 5. Performance and Configuration Events

- `performance:metric` - Performance measurements
- `performance:warning` - Performance threshold alerts
- `config:changed` - Configuration changes
- `cache:invalidated` - Cache invalidation events

## Consequences

### Positive

- **Decoupled architecture** - Components don't need direct references
- **Enhanced type safety** - Compile-time checking prevents runtime errors
- **Extensibility** - Easy to add new event listeners without modifying emitters
- **Advanced debugging** - Correlation IDs and metadata enable comprehensive request tracing
- **Superior testability** - Easy to mock and verify event emissions
- **Memory safety** - Automatic cleanup and configurable limits prevent leaks
- **Production monitoring** - Middleware enables comprehensive observability
- **Cross-cutting concerns** - Logging, validation, and rate limiting handled declaratively

### Negative

- **Initial complexity** - Indirect flow can be harder to follow initially
- **Minimal performance overhead** - Event processing adds negligible latency
- **Learning curve** - Developers need to understand event-driven patterns
- **Debugging complexity** - Async event flows require correlation tracking

## Quality Assurance

### Memory Management

- **Automatic cleanup**: All event listeners return cleanup functions
- **Configurable limits**: Max listeners and middleware prevent resource exhaustion
- **Leak prevention**: Proper cleanup in component unmount lifecycle

### Error Handling

- **Middleware isolation**: Errors in one middleware don't affect others
- **Event validation**: Type-safe structures prevent runtime errors
- **Error propagation**: Failed events don't crash the event bus

### Performance

- **Rate limiting**: Middleware prevents event flooding
- **Efficient forwarding**: IPC events use optimized serialization
- **Minimal overhead**: Event processing designed for production use

## Implementation Requirements

### Event Emission

```typescript
// In services/managers
await this.eventBus.emitTyped("domain:action", {
 // Event-specific data
 timestamp: Date.now(),
 // ... other properties
});
```

### Event Listening

```typescript
// Type-safe event listening
eventBus.onTyped("domain:action", (data) => {
 // data is properly typed
 // _meta is automatically available
});
```

### IPC Integration

```typescript
// Automatic forwarding in IpcService
private async forwardEventToRenderer(eventName: string, data: unknown) {
    this.webContents?.send(eventName, data);
}
```

## Compliance

All communication follows this pattern:

- Service layer emits domain events
- UI components listen to events via IPC
- Database operations emit lifecycle events
- Error handling emits failure events

## Related ADRs

- [ADR-001: Repository Pattern](./ADR_001_REPOSITORY_PATTERN.md)
- [ADR-003: Error Handling Strategy](./ADR_003_ERROR_HANDLING_STRATEGY.md)
- [ADR-004: Frontend State Management](./ADR_004_FRONTEND_STATE_MANAGEMENT.md)
