docs/Architecture/TSDOC_STANDARDS.md, before:

---

schema: "../../config/schemas/doc-frontmatter.schema.json"
title: "TSDoc Standardization Guide"
summary: "Standardizes TSDoc usage patterns and inline code examples across the Uptime-Watcher codebase."
created: "2025-08-05"
last_reviewed: "2025-11-15"
category: "guide"
author: "Nick2bad4u"
tags:

- "uptime-watcher"
- "architecture"
- "tsdoc"
- "documentation"
- "standards"

---

# TSDoc Standardization Guide

This document standardizes inline code examples and TSDoc patterns across the Uptime-Watcher codebase, reflecting current production-grade documentation practices.

## TSDoc Standards

### Enhanced Basic Format

````typescript

/**
 * Brief one-line description of the function/class/interface.
 *
 * @remarks
 * Detailed explanation of the purpose, behavior, and usage patterns. Include
 * important notes about thread safety, performance, or architectural decisions.
 * Use this section to explain the "why" behind the implementation.
 *
 * @since Version 1.2.0
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Basic usage example
 * const result = await functionName(requiredParam, optionalParam);
 * console.log(result);
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Advanced usage example with error handling
 * try {
 *  const result = await functionName(param);
 *  // Handle success
 * } catch (error) {
 *  // Handle error
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @param paramName - Description of the parameter, including type constraints
 * @param optionalParam - Description with indication of optional nature
 *
 * @returns Description of return value and any important details
 *
 * @throws Error type and conditions that cause the error
 *
 * @public
 *
 * @see {@link RelatedFunction} for related functionality
 */
````

### Repository Pattern Documentation

#### Repository Class

````typescript

/**
 * Repository for managing [ENTITY] data persistence.
 *
 * @remarks
 * Handles all CRUD operations for [ENTITY] in the database using the repository
 * pattern. All mutations are wrapped in transactions for consistency and error
 * handling.
 *
 * **Transaction Safety**: All write operations use `executeTransaction()` to
 * ensure atomicity. **Dual Methods**: Public async methods create transactions,
 * internal sync methods work within existing transactions. **Error Handling**:
 * Uses `withDatabaseOperation()` for retry logic and event emission.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Basic repository usage
 * const repository = new ExampleRepository({ databaseService });
 *
 * // Create a new entity
 * await repository.create({
 *  id: "unique-id",
 *  name: "Example Entity",
 *  createdAt: Date.now(),
 * });
 *
 * // Find all entities
 * const entities = await repository.findAll();
 *
 * // Find specific entity
 * const entity = await repository.findById("unique-id");
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Transaction usage with multiple operations
 * await databaseService.executeTransaction(async (db) => {
 *  repository.createInternal(db, entity1);
 *  repository.createInternal(db, entity2);
 *  repository.updateInternal(db, existingId, updates);
 * });
 * ```
 *
 * #### Repository Methods
 *
 * ```typescript
 * /**
 * Creates a new [ENTITY] in the database.
 *
 * @remarks
 * **Transaction Behavior**: Creates a new transaction for this operation.
 * **Data Validation**: Validates required fields and applies normalization.
 * **Event Emission**: Emits creation events for monitoring and UI updates.
 * **Retry Logic**: Includes automatic retry on transient failures.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Create a new entity
 * await repository.create({
 *  id: generateId(),
 *  name: "New Entity",
 *  category: "example",
 *  createdAt: Date.now(),
 * });
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Create with error handling
 * try {
 *  await repository.create(entityData);
 *  console.log("Entity created successfully");
 * } catch (error) {
 *  if (error.code === "SQLITE_CONSTRAINT") {
 *   console.error("Entity already exists");
 *  } else {
 *   console.error("Failed to create entity:", error.message);
 *  }
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @param data - The [ENTITY] data to create
 *
 * @returns Promise that resolves when the [ENTITY] is created
 *
 * @throws Error if the database operation fails or data validation fails
 *
 * @public
 *
 * @see {@link createInternal} for transaction-context usage
 */
````

### Event System Documentation

#### Event Bus

````typescript

/**
 * Enhanced event bus with type safety and middleware support.
 *
 * @remarks
 * Provides compile-time type checking for events, automatic correlation
 * tracking, middleware processing, and comprehensive debugging capabilities.
 * Events are processed through a middleware chain before emission.
 *
 * **Type Safety**: All events are validated at compile-time using TypeScript.
 * **Metadata Injection**: Automatically adds correlation IDs, timestamps, and
 * context. **Middleware Support**: Events can be processed, logged, or
 * transformed via middleware. **Error Handling**: Failed middleware or
 * listeners don't break the event system.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Define typed event map
 * interface MyEvents {
 *  "user:login": { userId: string; timestamp: number };
 *  "data:updated": { entityId: string; changes: string[] };
 * }
 *
 * // Create typed event bus
 * const eventBus = new TypedEventBus<MyEvents>();
 *
 * // Emit typed event
 * await eventBus.emitTyped("user:login", {
 *  userId: "123",
 *  timestamp: Date.now(),
 * });
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Listen to events with type safety
 * eventBus.onTyped("user:login", (data) => {
 *  // data is properly typed: { userId: string; timestamp: number; _meta: EventMetadata }
 *  console.log(`User ${data.userId} logged in at ${data.timestamp}`);
 *  console.log(`Correlation ID: ${data._meta.correlationId}`);
 * });
 *
 * // Add middleware for logging
 * eventBus.use(async (eventName, data, correlationId, next) => {
 *  console.log(`[Event] ${eventName} [${correlationId}]`);
 *  await next();
 * });
 * ```
 *
 * @typeParam EventMap - Map of event names to their data types
 *
 * @public
 */
````

#### Event Emission

````typescript

/**
 * Emits a typed event with automatic metadata injection.
 *
 * @remarks
 * **Metadata Injection**: Automatically adds `_meta` property with correlation
 * ID, timestamp, and context. **Middleware Processing**: Runs all registered
 * middleware before emitting to listeners. **Type Safety**: Ensures data
 * matches the expected type for the event name. **Error Propagation**:
 * Middleware errors are thrown to the caller, listener errors are logged.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Object event (typical case)
 * await bus.emitTyped("user:login", {
 *  userId: "123",
 *  timestamp: Date.now(),
 * });
 * // Listener receives: { userId: '123', timestamp: Date.now(), _meta: {...} }
 *
 * // Array event
 * await bus.emitTyped("data:batch", [1, 2, 3]);
 * // Listener receives: [1, 2, 3] with _meta property attached
 *
 * // Primitive event
 * await bus.emitTyped("count:updated", 42);
 * // Listener receives: { value: 42, _meta: {...} }
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Event emission with error handling
 * try {
 *  await eventBus.emitTyped("operation:completed", {
 *   operationId: "op-123",
 *   result: operationResult,
 *   duration: Date.now() - startTime,
 *  });
 * } catch (error) {
 *  console.error("Event emission failed:", error);
 *  // Handle middleware failures
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @param event - Event name from the EventMap
 * @param data - Event data matching the event type
 *
 * @returns Promise that resolves when all listeners have processed the event
 *
 * @throws Error when middleware processing fails
 *
 * @public
 */
````

### Frontend Store Documentation

#### Store Interface

````typescript

/**
 * [DOMAIN] store for managing [DESCRIPTION] state and interactions.
 *
 * @remarks
 * This store manages [DETAILED DESCRIPTION]. It uses Zustand with
 * [persistence/modular composition] to provide [SPECIFIC CAPABILITIES].
 *
 * **State Management**: Uses immutable updates with automatic action logging.
 * **Error Handling**: Integrates with `withErrorHandling()` for consistent
 * error management. **IPC Integration**: Communicates with backend via Renderer
 * services under `src/services`. **Persistence**: [Describe what gets persisted
 * and why]
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Basic store usage
 * import { useExampleStore } from "./stores/useExampleStore";
 *
 * function MyComponent() {
 *  const { items, addItem, removeItem, isLoading } = useExampleStore();
 *
 *  const handleAdd = async () => {
 *   const newItem = await useExampleStore.getState().createItem({
 *    name: "New Item",
 *    category: "example",
 *   });
 *   console.log("Created:", newItem);
 *  };
 *
 *  return (
 *   <div>
 *    {isLoading ? <Spinner /> : null}
 *    {items.map((item) => (
 *     <ItemCard key={item.id} item={item} />
 *    ))}
 *    <button onClick={handleAdd}>Add Item</button>
 *   </div>
 *  );
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Advanced usage with selectors
 * // Efficient selector for derived state
 * const activeItems = useExampleStore((state) =>
 *  state.items.filter((item) => item.status === "active")
 * );
 *
 * // Subscription to specific state changes
 * useEffect(() => {
 *  const unsubscribe = useExampleStore.subscribe(
 *   (state) => state.items.length,
 *   (itemCount) => console.log(`Item count: ${itemCount}`)
 *  );
 *  return unsubscribe;
 * }, []);
 * ```
 *
 * @public
 */
````

### Error Handling Documentation

#### withErrorHandling Function

````typescript

/**
 * Shared error handling utility for async operations with context-aware
 * behavior.
 *
 * @remarks
 * This utility provides two overloaded signatures for different contexts:
 *
 * **Frontend Context**: Integrates with store state management (loading, error
 * states). **Backend Context**: Integrates with logging infrastructure for
 * operation tracking.
 *
 * **Error Preservation**: Always re-throws original errors to maintain stack
 * traces. **State Safety**: Frontend store operations are protected from
 * cascading failures. **Correlation Tracking**: Backend operations include
 * correlation IDs for debugging.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Frontend usage with store integration
 * const handleUserAction = async () => {
 *  await withErrorHandling(async () => {
 *   const result = await SiteService.addSite(siteData);
 *   setSites((prevSites) => [...prevSites, result]);
 *   return result;
 *  }, errorStore); // Automatically manages loading/error state
 * };
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Backend usage with logger integration
 * async performBackendOperation() {
 *   return withErrorHandling(async () => {
 *     const result = await this.repository.performComplexOperation();
 *     await this.eventBus.emitTyped('operation:completed', { result });
 *     return result;
 *   }, {
 *     logger,
 *     operationName: "performBackendOperation"
 *   });
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Error handling with specific error types
 * try {
 *  await withErrorHandling(async () => {
 *   return await riskyOperation();
 *  }, context);
 * } catch (error) {
 *  if (error instanceof ValidationError) {
 *   // Handle validation errors
 *  } else if (error instanceof NetworkError) {
 *   // Handle network errors
 *  } else {
 *   // Handle unexpected errors
 *  }
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @param operation - Async operation to execute with error handling
 * @param context - Either frontend store or backend context for appropriate
 *   error handling
 *
 * @returns Promise resolving to operation result
 *
 * @throws Re-throws the original error after handling (logging or state
 *   management)
 *
 * @public
 */
````

### IPC Documentation

#### Handler Registration

````typescript

/**
 * Registers standardized IPC handler with validation and error handling.
 *
 * @remarks
 * **Channel Naming**: Must follow verb-first, hyphenated identifiers (e.g.,
 * 'add-site', 'start-monitoring-for-site'). **Validation**: Parameters are
 * validated before handler execution if validator provided. **Error Handling**:
 * Automatic error logging and consistent error response format. **Type
 * Safety**: Handler and validator types are checked at compile time.
 * **Duplicate Prevention**: Prevents multiple handlers for the same channel.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Simple handler without parameters
 * ipcService.registerStandardizedIpcHandler("get-sites", async () => {
 *  const sites = await siteManager.getAllSites();
 *  return sites;
 * });
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Handler with validation
 * ipcService.registerStandardizedIpcHandler(
 *  "add-site",
 *  async (params: SiteCreationData) => {
 *   const site = await siteManager.createSite(params);
 *   return site;
 *  },
 *  isSiteCreationData // Type guard function
 * );
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Complex handler with error handling
 * ipcService.registerStandardizedIpcHandler(
 *  "update-site",
 *  async (identifier: string, updates: Partial<Site>) => {
 *   const result = await siteManager.updateSite(identifier, updates);
 *   return result;
 *  },
 *  validateSiteUpdate // Type guard function validating the updates object
 * );
 * ```
 *
 * @param channel - IPC channel name following verb-first hyphenated pattern
 * @param handler - Async function to handle the IPC request
 * @param validator - Optional validation function for request parameters
 *
 * @throws Error if channel is already registered or handler registration fails
 *
 * @internal
 */
````

## Code Example Standards

### Inline Examples Format

#### Simple Examples

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Brief description of what this example shows
 * const result = await functionName(param1, param2);
 * console.log(result);
 * ```
 */
````

#### Complex Examples

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Comprehensive example with error handling
 * try {
 *  const repository = new ExampleRepository({ databaseService });
 *
 *  // Create multiple entities in a transaction
 *  const entities = await repository.bulkCreate([
 *   { name: "Entity 1", category: "test" },
 *   { name: "Entity 2", category: "prod" },
 *  ]);
 *
 *  console.log(`Created ${entities.length} entities`);
 * } catch (error) {
 *  console.error("Bulk creation failed:", error.message);
 * }
 * ```
 */
````

#### Usage Pattern Examples

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Basic usage pattern
 * const store = useExampleStore();
 * const { items, addItem, isLoading } = store;
 *
 * // React component integration
 * useEffect(() => {
 *  store.fetchItems();
 * }, []);
 *
 * const handleAdd = () => {
 *  addItem({ name: "New Item", category: "default" });
 * };
 * ```
 */
````

### Example Categories

#### 1. Basic Usage

Show the most common, straightforward usage:

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Basic repository usage
 * const user = await userRepository.findById("user-123");
 * if (user) {
 *  console.log(`Found user: ${user.name}`);
 * }
 * ```
 */
````

#### 2. Error Handling

Demonstrate proper error handling patterns:

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Proper error handling
 * try {
 *  await repository.create(userData);
 * } catch (error) {
 *  if (error.code === "SQLITE_CONSTRAINT") {
 *   throw new Error("User already exists");
 *  }
 *  throw error; // Re-throw unexpected errors
 * }
 * ```
 */
````

#### 3. Advanced Usage

Show complex scenarios and integration patterns:

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Advanced usage with transaction coordination
 * await databaseService.executeTransaction(async (db) => {
 *  // Create user
 *  userRepository.createInternal(db, userData);
 *
 *  // Create initial settings
 *  settingsRepository.createInternal(db, defaultSettings);
 *
 *  // Log creation event
 *  await eventBus.emitTyped("user:created", { userId: userData.id });
 * });
 * ```
 */
````

## TSDoc Tags Reference

### Standard Tags

- `@param` - Parameter description
- `@returns` - Return value description
- `@throws` - Exception conditions
- `@example` - Code examples (always use)
- `@remarks` - Detailed implementation notes
- `@see` - Cross-references to related items
- `@since` - Version when feature was added
- `@deprecated` - Mark obsolete APIs

### Visibility Tags

- `@public` - Public API (exported)
- `@internal` - Internal implementation (not exported)
- `@readonly` - Read-only property
- `@override` - Method overrides parent

### Custom Tags (Project-Specific)

- `@typeParam` - Generic type parameter description
- `@template` - Alternative to @typeParam

## Validation Checklist

When documenting code, ensure:

- [ ] Brief description is clear and specific
- [ ] `@remarks` explains the "why" and important behaviors
- [ ] All parameters are documented with types and constraints
- [ ] Return value is clearly described
- [ ] Error conditions are documented with `@throws`
- [ ] At least one `@example` showing basic usage
- [ ] Complex scenarios have additional examples
- [ ] Error handling patterns are demonstrated
- [ ] Related functions are cross-referenced with `@see`
- [ ] Visibility tags (`@public`, `@internal`) are used appropriately
- [ ] Examples use realistic data and variable names
- [ ] Code examples are syntactically correct TypeScript
- [ ] Examples follow the established patterns from the codebase

Commit message:

📝 [docs] Update documentation for Uptime Watcher
 - 🔧 [docs] Update last reviewed dates in multiple guides to 2025-11-16
 - 📝 [docs] Improve table of contents formatting in various guides for better navigation
 - 📝 [docs] Add missing sections to the table of contents in Playwright testing guides
 - 📝 [docs] Enhance frontmatter structure in markdown files for consistency
 - 📝 [docs] Add new tags and categories to various documentation files for better organization
 - 📝 [docs] Remove deprecated references to 'remark-reference-links' and add 'remark-inline-links' for improved link handling
 - 🛠️ [fix] Fix internal link resolution in documentation scripts to handle edge cases
 - 🚜 [refactor] Refactor documentation maintenance scripts for better readability and performance
 - 🧪 [test] Update validation script to include new documentation directories for thorough checks

Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/Architecture/TSDOC_STANDARDS.md, after:

---
schema: "../../config/schemas/doc-frontmatter.schema.json"
title: "TSDoc Standardization Guide"
summary: "Standardizes TSDoc usage patterns and inline code examples across the Uptime-Watcher codebase."
created: "2025-08-05"
last_reviewed: "2025-11-16"
category: "guide"
author: "Nick2bad4u"
tags:
  - "uptime-watcher"
  - "architecture"
  - "tsdoc"
  - "documentation"
  - "standards"
---

# TSDoc Standardization Guide

## Table of Contents

1. [TSDoc Standards](#tsdoc-standards)
2. [Code Example Standards](#code-example-standards)
3. [TSDoc Tags Reference](#tsdoc-tags-reference)
4. [Validation Checklist](#validation-checklist)

## TSDoc Standards

### Enhanced Basic Format

````typescript

/**
 * Brief one-line description of the function/class/interface.
 *
 * @remarks
 * Detailed explanation of the purpose, behavior, and usage patterns. Include
 * important notes about thread safety, performance, or architectural decisions.
 * Use this section to explain the "why" behind the implementation.
 *
 * @since Version 1.2.0
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Basic usage example
 * const result = await functionName(requiredParam, optionalParam);
 * console.log(result);
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Advanced usage example with error handling
 * try {
 *  const result = await functionName(param);
 *  // Handle success
 * } catch (error) {
 *  // Handle error
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @param paramName - Description of the parameter, including type constraints
 * @param optionalParam - Description with indication of optional nature
 *
 * @returns Description of return value and any important details
 *
 * @throws Error type and conditions that cause the error
 *
 * @public
 *
 * @see {@link RelatedFunction} for related functionality
 */
````

### Repository Pattern Documentation

#### Repository Class

````typescript

/**
 * Repository for managing [ENTITY] data persistence.
 *
 * @remarks
 * Handles all CRUD operations for [ENTITY] in the database using the repository
 * pattern. All mutations are wrapped in transactions for consistency and error
 * handling.
 *
 * **Transaction Safety**: All write operations use `executeTransaction()` to
 * ensure atomicity. **Dual Methods**: Public async methods create transactions,
 * internal sync methods work within existing transactions. **Error Handling**:
 * Uses `withDatabaseOperation()` for retry logic and event emission.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Basic repository usage
 * const repository = new ExampleRepository({ databaseService });
 *
 * // Create a new entity
 * await repository.create({
 *  id: "unique-id",
 *  name: "Example Entity",
 *  createdAt: Date.now(),
 * });
 *
 * // Find all entities
 * const entities = await repository.findAll();
 *
 * // Find specific entity
 * const entity = await repository.findById("unique-id");
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Transaction usage with multiple operations
 * await databaseService.executeTransaction(async (db) => {
 *  repository.createInternal(db, entity1);
 *  repository.createInternal(db, entity2);
 *  repository.updateInternal(db, existingId, updates);
 * });
 * ```
 *
 * #### Repository Methods
 *
 * ```typescript
 * /**
 * Creates a new [ENTITY] in the database.
 *
 * @remarks
 * **Transaction Behavior**: Creates a new transaction for this operation.
 * **Data Validation**: Validates required fields and applies normalization.
 * **Event Emission**: Emits creation events for monitoring and UI updates.
 * **Retry Logic**: Includes automatic retry on transient failures.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Create a new entity
 * await repository.create({
 *  id: generateId(),
 *  name: "New Entity",
 *  category: "example",
 *  createdAt: Date.now(),
 * });
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Create with error handling
 * try {
 *  await repository.create(entityData);
 *  console.log("Entity created successfully");
 * } catch (error) {
 *  if (error.code === "SQLITE_CONSTRAINT") {
 *   console.error("Entity already exists");
 *  } else {
 *   console.error("Failed to create entity:", error.message);
 *  }
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @param data - The [ENTITY] data to create
 *
 * @returns Promise that resolves when the [ENTITY] is created
 *
 * @throws Error if the database operation fails or data validation fails
 *
 * @public
 *
 * @see {@link createInternal} for transaction-context usage
 */
````

### Event System Documentation

#### Event Bus

````typescript

/**
 * Enhanced event bus with type safety and middleware support.
 *
 * @remarks
 * Provides compile-time type checking for events, automatic correlation
 * tracking, middleware processing, and comprehensive debugging capabilities.
 * Events are processed through a middleware chain before emission.
 *
 * **Type Safety**: All events are validated at compile-time using TypeScript.
 * **Metadata Injection**: Automatically adds correlation IDs, timestamps, and
 * context. **Middleware Support**: Events can be processed, logged, or
 * transformed via middleware. **Error Handling**: Failed middleware or
 * listeners don't break the event system.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Define typed event map
 * interface MyEvents {
 *  "user:login": { userId: string; timestamp: number };
 *  "data:updated": { entityId: string; changes: string[] };
 * }
 *
 * // Create typed event bus
 * const eventBus = new TypedEventBus<MyEvents>();
 *
 * // Emit typed event
 * await eventBus.emitTyped("user:login", {
 *  userId: "123",
 *  timestamp: Date.now(),
 * });
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Listen to events with type safety
 * eventBus.onTyped("user:login", (data) => {
 *  // data is properly typed: { userId: string; timestamp: number; _meta: EventMetadata }
 *  console.log(`User ${data.userId} logged in at ${data.timestamp}`);
 *  console.log(`Correlation ID: ${data._meta.correlationId}`);
 * });
 *
 * // Add middleware for logging
 * eventBus.use(async (eventName, data, correlationId, next) => {
 *  console.log(`[Event] ${eventName} [${correlationId}]`);
 *  await next();
 * });
 * ```
 *
 * @typeParam EventMap - Map of event names to their data types
 *
 * @public
 */
````

#### Event Emission

````typescript

/**
 * Emits a typed event with automatic metadata injection.
 *
 * @remarks
 * **Metadata Injection**: Automatically adds `_meta` property with correlation
 * ID, timestamp, and context. **Middleware Processing**: Runs all registered
 * middleware before emitting to listeners. **Type Safety**: Ensures data
 * matches the expected type for the event name. **Error Propagation**:
 * Middleware errors are thrown to the caller, listener errors are logged.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Object event (typical case)
 * await bus.emitTyped("user:login", {
 *  userId: "123",
 *  timestamp: Date.now(),
 * });
 * // Listener receives: { userId: '123', timestamp: Date.now(), _meta: {...} }
 *
 * // Array event
 * await bus.emitTyped("data:batch", [1, 2, 3]);
 * // Listener receives: [1, 2, 3] with _meta property attached
 *
 * // Primitive event
 * await bus.emitTyped("count:updated", 42);
 * // Listener receives: { value: 42, _meta: {...} }
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Event emission with error handling
 * try {
 *  await eventBus.emitTyped("operation:completed", {
 *   operationId: "op-123",
 *   result: operationResult,
 *   duration: Date.now() - startTime,
 *  });
 * } catch (error) {
 *  console.error("Event emission failed:", error);
 *  // Handle middleware failures
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @param event - Event name from the EventMap
 * @param data - Event data matching the event type
 *
 * @returns Promise that resolves when all listeners have processed the event
 *
 * @throws Error when middleware processing fails
 *
 * @public
 */
````

### Frontend Store Documentation

#### Store Interface

````typescript

/**
 * [DOMAIN] store for managing [DESCRIPTION] state and interactions.
 *
 * @remarks
 * This store manages [DETAILED DESCRIPTION]. It uses Zustand with
 * [persistence/modular composition] to provide [SPECIFIC CAPABILITIES].
 *
 * **State Management**: Uses immutable updates with automatic action logging.
 * **Error Handling**: Integrates with `withErrorHandling()` for consistent
 * error management. **IPC Integration**: Communicates with backend via Renderer
 * services under `src/services`. **Persistence**: [Describe what gets persisted
 * and why]
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Basic store usage
 * import { useExampleStore } from "./stores/useExampleStore";
 *
 * function MyComponent() {
 *  const { items, addItem, removeItem, isLoading } = useExampleStore();
 *
 *  const handleAdd = async () => {
 *   const newItem = await useExampleStore.getState().createItem({
 *    name: "New Item",
 *    category: "example",
 *   });
 *   console.log("Created:", newItem);
 *  };
 *
 *  return (
 *   <div>
 *    {isLoading ? <Spinner /> : null}
 *    {items.map((item) => (
 *     <ItemCard key={item.id} item={item} />
 *    ))}
 *    <button onClick={handleAdd}>Add Item</button>
 *   </div>
 *  );
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Advanced usage with selectors
 * // Efficient selector for derived state
 * const activeItems = useExampleStore((state) =>
 *  state.items.filter((item) => item.status === "active")
 * );
 *
 * // Subscription to specific state changes
 * useEffect(() => {
 *  const unsubscribe = useExampleStore.subscribe(
 *   (state) => state.items.length,
 *   (itemCount) => console.log(`Item count: ${itemCount}`)
 *  );
 *  return unsubscribe;
 * }, []);
 * ```
 *
 * @public
 */
````

### Error Handling Documentation

#### withErrorHandling Function

````typescript

/**
 * Shared error handling utility for async operations with context-aware
 * behavior.
 *
 * @remarks
 * This utility provides two overloaded signatures for different contexts:
 *
 * **Frontend Context**: Integrates with store state management (loading, error
 * states). **Backend Context**: Integrates with logging infrastructure for
 * operation tracking.
 *
 * **Error Preservation**: Always re-throws original errors to maintain stack
 * traces. **State Safety**: Frontend store operations are protected from
 * cascading failures. **Correlation Tracking**: Backend operations include
 * correlation IDs for debugging.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Frontend usage with store integration
 * const handleUserAction = async () => {
 *  await withErrorHandling(async () => {
 *   const result = await SiteService.addSite(siteData);
 *   setSites((prevSites) => [...prevSites, result]);
 *   return result;
 *  }, errorStore); // Automatically manages loading/error state
 * };
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Backend usage with logger integration
 * async performBackendOperation() {
 *   return withErrorHandling(async () => {
 *     const result = await this.repository.performComplexOperation();
 *     await this.eventBus.emitTyped('operation:completed', { result });
 *     return result;
 *   }, {
 *     logger,
 *     operationName: "performBackendOperation"
 *   });
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Error handling with specific error types
 * try {
 *  await withErrorHandling(async () => {
 *   return await riskyOperation();
 *  }, context);
 * } catch (error) {
 *  if (error instanceof ValidationError) {
 *   // Handle validation errors
 *  } else if (error instanceof NetworkError) {
 *   // Handle network errors
 *  } else {
 *   // Handle unexpected errors
 *  }
 * }
 * ```
 *
 * @param operation - Async operation to execute with error handling
 * @param context - Either frontend store or backend context for appropriate
 *   error handling
 *
 * @returns Promise resolving to operation result
 *
 * @throws Re-throws the original error after handling (logging or state
 *   management)
 *
 * @public
 */
````

### IPC Documentation

#### Handler Registration

````typescript

/**
 * Registers standardized IPC handler with validation and error handling.
 *
 * @remarks
 * **Channel Naming**: Must follow verb-first, hyphenated identifiers (e.g.,
 * 'add-site', 'start-monitoring-for-site'). **Validation**: Parameters are
 * validated before handler execution if validator provided. **Error Handling**:
 * Automatic error logging and consistent error response format. **Type
 * Safety**: Handler and validator types are checked at compile time.
 * **Duplicate Prevention**: Prevents multiple handlers for the same channel.
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Simple handler without parameters
 * ipcService.registerStandardizedIpcHandler("get-sites", async () => {
 *  const sites = await siteManager.getAllSites();
 *  return sites;
 * });
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Handler with validation
 * ipcService.registerStandardizedIpcHandler(
 *  "add-site",
 *  async (params: SiteCreationData) => {
 *   const site = await siteManager.createSite(params);
 *   return site;
 *  },
 *  isSiteCreationData // Type guard function
 * );
 * ```
 *
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Complex handler with error handling
 * ipcService.registerStandardizedIpcHandler(
 *  "update-site",
 *  async (identifier: string, updates: Partial<Site>) => {
 *   const result = await siteManager.updateSite(identifier, updates);
 *   return result;
 *  },
 *  validateSiteUpdate // Type guard function validating the updates object
 * );
 * ```
 *
 * @param channel - IPC channel name following verb-first hyphenated pattern
 * @param handler - Async function to handle the IPC request
 * @param validator - Optional validation function for request parameters
 *
 * @throws Error if channel is already registered or handler registration fails
 *
 * @internal
 */
````

## Code Example Standards

### Inline Examples Format

#### Simple Examples

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Brief description of what this example shows
 * const result = await functionName(param1, param2);
 * console.log(result);
 * ```
 */
````

#### Complex Examples

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Comprehensive example with error handling
 * try {
 *  const repository = new ExampleRepository({ databaseService });
 *
 *  // Create multiple entities in a transaction
 *  const entities = await repository.bulkCreate([
 *   { name: "Entity 1", category: "test" },
 *   { name: "Entity 2", category: "prod" },
 *  ]);
 *
 *  console.log(`Created ${entities.length} entities`);
 * } catch (error) {
 *  console.error("Bulk creation failed:", error.message);
 * }
 * ```
 */
````

#### Usage Pattern Examples

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Basic usage pattern
 * const store = useExampleStore();
 * const { items, addItem, isLoading } = store;
 *
 * // React component integration
 * useEffect(() => {
 *  store.fetchItems();
 * }, []);
 *
 * const handleAdd = () => {
 *  addItem({ name: "New Item", category: "default" });
 * };
 * ```
 */
````

### Example Categories

#### 1. Basic Usage

Show the most common, straightforward usage:

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Basic repository usage
 * const user = await userRepository.findById("user-123");
 * if (user) {
 *  console.log(`Found user: ${user.name}`);
 * }
 * ```
 */
````

#### 2. Error Handling

Demonstrate proper error handling patterns:

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Proper error handling
 * try {
 *  await repository.create(userData);
 * } catch (error) {
 *  if (error.code === "SQLITE_CONSTRAINT") {
 *   throw new Error("User already exists");
 *  }
 *  throw error; // Re-throw unexpected errors
 * }
 * ```
 */
````

#### 3. Advanced Usage

Show complex scenarios and integration patterns:

````typescript

/**
 * @example
 *
 * ```typescript
 * // Advanced usage with transaction coordination
 * await databaseService.executeTransaction(async (db) => {
 *  // Create user
 *  userRepository.createInternal(db, userData);
 *
 *  // Create initial settings
 *  settingsRepository.createInternal(db, defaultSettings);
 *
 *  // Log creation event
 *  await eventBus.emitTyped("user:created", { userId: userData.id });
 * });
 * ```
 */
````

## TSDoc Tags Reference

### Standard Tags

- `@param` - Parameter description
- `@returns` - Return value description
- `@throws` - Exception conditions
- `@example` - Code examples (always use)
- `@remarks` - Detailed implementation notes
- `@see` - Cross-references to related items
- `@since` - Version when feature was added
- `@deprecated` - Mark obsolete APIs

### Visibility Tags

- `@public` - Public API (exported)
- `@internal` - Internal implementation (not exported)
- `@readonly` - Read-only property
- `@override` - Method overrides parent

### Custom Tags (Project-Specific)

- `@typeParam` - Generic type parameter description
- `@template` - Alternative to @typeParam

## Validation Checklist

When documenting code, ensure:

- \[ ] Brief description is clear and specific
- \[ ] `@remarks` explains the "why" and important behaviors
- \[ ] All parameters are documented with types and constraints
- \[ ] Return value is clearly described
- \[ ] Error conditions are documented with `@throws`
- \[ ] At least one `@example` showing basic usage
- \[ ] Complex scenarios have additional examples
- \[ ] Error handling patterns are demonstrated
- \[ ] Related functions are cross-referenced with `@see`
- \[ ] Visibility tags (`@public`, `@internal`) are used appropriately
- \[ ] Examples use realistic data and variable names
- \[ ] Code examples are syntactically correct TypeScript
- \[ ] Examples follow the established patterns from the codebase
