docs/Guides/CLOUD_SYNC_GOOGLE_DRIVE_SETUP.md, before:

---
schema: "../../config/schemas/doc-frontmatter.schema.json"
title: "Google Drive Cloud Sync Setup"
summary: "Setup guide for using Google Drive as a first-class Cloud Sync provider (OAuth 2.0 + PKCE + loopback redirect, no backend server)."
created: 2025-12-15
last_reviewed: 2025-12-16
category: "guide"
author: "Nick2bad4u"
tags:
 - cloud
 - sync
 - backups
 - google-drive
 - oauth
 - pkce
---

# Google Drive Cloud Sync Setup

This document explains how to configure Google OAuth credentials so Uptime Watcher can use **Google Drive** as a first-class cloud provider.

## Status

Implemented.

Google Drive uses **Google Drive appDataFolder** so backups and sync artifacts are stored in the app’s private storage area (not a user-visible folder).

## Design constraints (must not regress)

- **System browser OAuth** only (no embedded auth webviews).
- **OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code + PKCE**.
- **Loopback redirect** (local HTTP server bound to localhost) — no backend service.
- **No secrets in the renderer**. Tokens and refresh tokens live in Electron main and are stored via the existing `SecretStore` abstraction.

## What you will need (as the app maintainer)

- A Google Cloud project
- An OAuth 2.0 Client ID for a desktop application (or the approach we standardize on for Electron)
- A clear list of **scopes** limited to what the provider implementation requires

> Important
>
> Treat any Google OAuth client secret as _non-confidential_ for a desktop app. The app should be designed as a **public client** (PKCE). Never rely on a client secret staying secret.

## Environment variables (optional override)

The app ships with a default Google OAuth client id and end users do not need to
configure anything.

These variables are still read from `process.env` in the Electron main process
and take precedence when set:

- `UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` (optional; only needed for custom OAuth
  apps depending on how they are configured)

### Example: local development override

The Electron main process reads these from `process.env`.

Set environment variables in your shell before starting the app (only needed if
you want to use a different Google OAuth app).

PowerShell:

```powershell
$env:UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID = "YOUR_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID.apps.googleusercontent.com"
$env:UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET = "OPTIONAL_CLIENT_SECRET"
npm run dev
```

bash/zsh:

```bash
export UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID="YOUR_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID.apps.googleusercontent.com"
export UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET="OPTIONAL_CLIENT_SECRET"
npm run dev
```

## Redirect URI strategy

Uptime Watcher uses a loopback HTTP server bound to the loopback interfaces.

### Redirect URI values

Configure the following **Authorized redirect URIs** in your Google OAuth client:

```text
http://localhost:53682/oauth2/callback
```

Uptime Watcher uses a stable callback path because some providers require an exact redirect URI string.

If you need an additional fallback for unusual `localhost` resolution environments, you can also register:

```text
http://127.0.0.1:53682/oauth2/callback
```

## Scopes

Uptime Watcher requests the following scopes:

- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/drive.appdata` (store data in `appDataFolder`)
- `openid`, `email`, `profile` (used to fetch and display the connected account label)

## Storage behavior

- All objects are stored under Google Drive `appDataFolder`.
- Uptime Watcher creates an internal root folder named `uptime-watcher/` under `appDataFolder`.
- Backup metadata is stored alongside backups as `*.metadata.json` sidecar files.

## Related references

- ADR-021: `docs/Architecture/ADRs/ADR_021_CLOUD_PROVIDER_SELECTION_AND_SETTINGS_UI.md`
- Dropbox guide (reference implementation): `docs/Guides/CLOUD_SYNC_DROPBOX_SETUP.md`
- Cloud provider architecture: `docs/Architecture/ADRs/ADR_015_CLOUD_SYNC_AND_REMOTE_BACKUP.md`

Commit message:

✨ [feat] Enhance SystemService with clipboard functionality  - 🆕 Added `writeClipboardText` method to `SystemService` for writing text to the OS clipboard.  - 🔒 Implemented URL safety check in `openExternal` to block disallowed URLs.  - 📜 Updated `SystemServiceContract` to include the new method.
🧪 [test] Add tests for clipboard functionality in SystemService
 - ✅ Created comprehensive tests for `writeClipboardText` to ensure proper functionality.
 - 🔍 Mocked `writeClipboardText` in `SyncMaintenancePanel` tests to validate clipboard interactions.

🎨 [style] Improve test readability and structure
 - ✏️ Refactored test cases in `CloudProviderSetupPanel`, `StatusAlertToast`, and `PromptDialog` for clarity.
 - 🧹 Cleaned up unnecessary async/await patterns in tests for better performance.

📝 [docs] Update documentation for new features
 - 📖 Documented the purpose and usage of the new `writeClipboardText` method in the codebase.

⚡ [perf] Optimize regex patterns for better performance
 - 🔄 Changed regex patterns in `environment.ts`, `icons.ts`, and `electron-api-mock.ts` to use the `u` flag for Unicode support.

🚜 [refactor] General code cleanup and organization
 - 🧹 Removed redundant code and improved overall structure in various components and services.

Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/Guides/CLOUD_SYNC_GOOGLE_DRIVE_SETUP.md, after:

---
schema: "../../config/schemas/doc-frontmatter.schema.json"
title: "Google Drive Cloud Sync Setup"
summary: "Setup guide for using Google Drive as a first-class Cloud Sync provider (OAuth 2.0 + PKCE + loopback redirect, no backend server)."
created: 2025-12-15
last_reviewed: 2025-12-16
category: "guide"
author: "Nick2bad4u"
tags:
 - cloud
 - sync
 - backups
 - google-drive
 - oauth
 - pkce
---

# Google Drive Cloud Sync Setup

This document explains how to configure Google OAuth credentials so Uptime Watcher can use **Google Drive** as a first-class cloud provider.

## Status

Implemented.

Google Drive uses **Google Drive appDataFolder** so backups and sync artifacts are stored in the app’s private storage area (not a user-visible folder).

## Design constraints (must not regress)

- **System browser OAuth** only (no embedded auth webviews).
- **OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code + PKCE**.
- **Loopback redirect** (local HTTP server bound to a loopback interface) — no backend service.
- **No secrets in the renderer**. Tokens and refresh tokens live in Electron main and are stored via the existing `SecretStore` abstraction.

## What you will need (as the app maintainer)

- A Google Cloud project
- An OAuth 2.0 Client ID for a desktop application (or the approach we standardize on for Electron)
- A clear list of **scopes** limited to what the provider implementation requires

> Important
>
> Treat any Google OAuth client secret as _non-confidential_ for a desktop app. The app should be designed as a **public client** (PKCE). Never rely on a client secret staying secret.

## Environment variables (optional override)

The app ships with a default Google OAuth client id (and its associated client
secret) and end users do not need to configure anything.

These variables are still read from `process.env` in the Electron main process
and take precedence when set:

- `UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` (optional override; if you override the
  client id and your OAuth app requires a secret, you must override this too)

### Example: local development override

The Electron main process reads these from `process.env`.

Set environment variables in your shell before starting the app (only needed if
you want to use a different Google OAuth app).

PowerShell:

```powershell
$env:UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID = "YOUR_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID.apps.googleusercontent.com"
$env:UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET = "OPTIONAL_CLIENT_SECRET"
npm run dev
```

bash/zsh:

```bash
export UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID="YOUR_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID.apps.googleusercontent.com"
export UPTIME_WATCHER_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET="OPTIONAL_CLIENT_SECRET"
npm run dev
```

## Redirect URI strategy

Uptime Watcher uses a loopback HTTP server bound to a loopback interface.

### Redirect URI values

For **Google Drive**, Uptime Watcher uses a **pathless** loopback redirect URI (per Google’s native-app guidance):

```text
http://127.0.0.1:53682
```

> Note
>
> Whether you must explicitly configure “Authorized redirect URIs” depends on the
> **OAuth client type**:
>
> - **Desktop app** clients typically accept loopback redirects without listing
>   a fixed redirect URI.
> - **Web application** clients typically require an exact redirect URI string.
>
> If you use a web client anyway, you must configure an exact redirect URI that
> matches what the app uses.

## Scopes

Uptime Watcher requests the following scopes:

- `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/drive.appdata` (store data in `appDataFolder`)
- `openid`, `email`, `profile` (used to fetch and display the connected account label)

## Storage behavior

- All objects are stored under Google Drive `appDataFolder`.
- Uptime Watcher creates an internal root folder named `uptime-watcher/` under `appDataFolder`.
- Backup metadata is stored alongside backups as `*.metadata.json` sidecar files.

## Related references

- ADR-021: `docs/Architecture/ADRs/ADR_021_CLOUD_PROVIDER_SELECTION_AND_SETTINGS_UI.md`
- Dropbox guide (reference implementation): `docs/Guides/CLOUD_SYNC_DROPBOX_SETUP.md`
- Cloud provider architecture: `docs/Architecture/ADRs/ADR_015_CLOUD_SYNC_AND_REMOTE_BACKUP.md`
