docs/Guides/DEVTOOLS_SNIPPETS.md, before:

# Chrome DevTools Snippets for Testing

This document contains useful Chrome DevTools snippets for testing the Uptime Watcher application.

## How to Use These Snippets

1. Open Chrome DevTools (F12 or Right-click → Inspect)
2. Go to the **Sources** tab
3. Click on **Snippets** in the left sidebar (you may need to click the `>>` menu to find it)
4. Click **+ New snippet**
5. Give it a name (e.g., "Add Test Sites" or "Remove All Sites")
6. Paste the code from below
7. Right-click the snippet and select **Run** (or press Ctrl+Enter / Cmd+Enter)

## Snippet 1: Add Test Sites (One of Each Monitor Type)

This snippet adds one site for each supported monitor type with realistic test configurations.

```javascript
/**
 * Add Test Sites - Creates one site for each monitor type
 *
 * Creates test sites with the following monitor types:
 *
 * - HTTP
 * - HTTP Keyword
 * - HTTP Status
 * - HTTP Header
 * - HTTP JSON
 * - HTTP Latency
 * - Port
 * - Ping
 * - DNS
 * - SSL
 * - WebSocket Keepalive
 * - Server Heartbeat
 * - Replication
 * - CDN Edge Consistency
 */
(async () => {
 console.log("🚀 Starting to add test sites...");

 if (!window.electronAPI?.sites?.addSite) {
  console.error("❌ electronAPI.sites.addSite not available");
  return;
 }

 const baseTimestamp = Date.now();
 const sites = [
  {
   identifier: `test-http-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http",
     url: "https://example.com",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-http-keyword-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP Keyword Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-keyword-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http-keyword",
     url: "https://example.com",
     bodyKeyword: "Example Domain",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-http-status-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP Status Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-status-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http-status",
     url: "https://example.com",
     expectedStatusCode: 200,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-http-header-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP Header Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-header-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http-header",
     url: "https://example.com",
     headerName: "content-type",
     expectedHeaderValue: "text/html",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-http-json-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP JSON Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-json-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http-json",
     url: "https://api.example.com/status",
     jsonPath: "$.status",
     expectedJsonValue: "ok",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-http-latency-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP Latency Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-latency-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http-latency",
     url: "https://example.com",
     latencyThreshold: 500,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-port-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test Port Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-port-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "port",
     host: "example.com",
     port: 443,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-ping-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test Ping Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-ping-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "ping",
     host: "8.8.8.8",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-dns-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test DNS Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-dns-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "dns",
     hostname: "example.com",
     recordType: "A",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-ssl-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test SSL Certificate Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-ssl-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "ssl",
     hostname: "example.com",
     certificateWarningDays: 30,
     checkInterval: 86400000, // 24 hours
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-websocket-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test WebSocket Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-websocket-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "websocket-keepalive",
     url: "wss://echo.websocket.org",
     pingMessage: "ping",
     expectedPongMessage: "ping",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-heartbeat-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test Server Heartbeat Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-heartbeat-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "server-heartbeat",
     serverIdentifier: "test-server-01",
     heartbeatInterval: 60000,
     missedHeartbeatThreshold: 3,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-replication-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test Replication Lag Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-replication-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "replication",
     primaryHost: "primary.db.example.com",
     replicaHost: "replica.db.example.com",
     lagThreshold: 5000,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-cdn-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test CDN Edge Consistency Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-cdn-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "cdn-edge-consistency",
     baselineUrl: "https://origin.example.com/test",
     edgeLocations:
      "https://edge1.cdn.example.com/test\nhttps://edge2.cdn.example.com/test",
     checkInterval: 300000, // 5 minutes
     timeout: 15000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
 ];

 let successCount = 0;
 let failCount = 0;

 for (const site of sites) {
  try {
   await window.electronAPI.sites.addSite(site);
   console.log(`✅ Added: ${site.name} (${site.monitors[0].type})`);
   successCount++;
  } catch (error) {
   console.error(`❌ Failed to add ${site.name}:`, error);
   failCount++;
  }
 }

 console.log(`\n📊 Summary:`);
 console.log(`   ✅ Successfully added: ${successCount} sites`);
 console.log(`   ❌ Failed: ${failCount} sites`);
 console.log(`\n🎉 Done! Check your dashboard for the new test sites.`);
})();
```

## Snippet 2: Remove All Sites

This snippet removes all sites from the application. **Use with caution!**

```javascript
/**
 * Remove All Sites - Deletes all sites from the database
 *
 * ⚠️ WARNING: This action cannot be undone! This will delete ALL sites and
 * their monitoring history.
 */
(async () => {
 console.log("🗑️  Starting to remove all sites...");

 if (!window.electronAPI?.sites?.deleteAllSites) {
  console.error("❌ electronAPI.sites.deleteAllSites not available");
  return;
 }

 // Confirm before deletion
 const confirmDelete = confirm(
  "⚠️ WARNING: This will delete ALL sites and their data!\n\n" +
   "This action CANNOT be undone.\n\n" +
   "Are you sure you want to continue?"
 );

 if (!confirmDelete) {
  console.log("❌ Operation cancelled by user");
  return;
 }

 try {
  const deletedCount = await window.electronAPI.sites.deleteAllSites();
  console.log(`✅ Successfully deleted ${deletedCount} site(s)`);
  console.log("🎉 All sites have been removed from the database");
 } catch (error) {
  console.error("❌ Failed to delete sites:", error);
 }
})();
```

## Snippet 3: Add Minimal Test Sites (Quick Testing)

A simpler version that adds just a few basic sites for quick testing.

```javascript
/**
 * Add Minimal Test Sites - Adds 3 basic sites for quick testing
 */
(async () => {
 console.log("🚀 Adding minimal test sites...");

 if (!window.electronAPI?.sites?.addSite) {
  console.error("❌ electronAPI.sites.addSite not available");
  return;
 }

 const timestamp = Date.now();
 const sites = [
  {
   identifier: `quick-http-${timestamp}`,
   name: "Quick HTTP Test",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-${timestamp}`,
     type: "http",
     url: "https://example.com",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `quick-port-${timestamp}`,
   name: "Quick Port Test",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-port-${timestamp}`,
     type: "port",
     host: "example.com",
     port: 443,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `quick-ping-${timestamp}`,
   name: "Quick Ping Test",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-ping-${timestamp}`,
     type: "ping",
     host: "8.8.8.8",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
 ];

 let count = 0;
 for (const site of sites) {
  try {
   await window.electronAPI.sites.addSite(site);
   console.log(`✅ Added: ${site.name}`);
   count++;
  } catch (error) {
   console.error(`❌ Failed to add ${site.name}:`, error);
  }
 }

 console.log(`\n✅ Added ${count} test site(s)`);
})();
```

## Snippet 4: List All Sites

View all currently configured sites in the console.

```javascript
/**
 * List All Sites - Displays all sites and their monitors
 */
(async () => {
 console.log("📋 Fetching all sites...");

 if (!window.electronAPI?.sites?.getSites) {
  console.error("❌ electronAPI.sites.getSites not available");
  return;
 }

 try {
  const sites = await window.electronAPI.sites.getSites();

  console.log(`\n📊 Total sites: ${sites.length}\n`);

  if (sites.length === 0) {
   console.log("ℹ️  No sites configured");
   return;
  }

  sites.forEach((site, index) => {
   console.log(`${index + 1}. ${site.name} (${site.identifier})`);
   console.log(`   Monitoring: ${site.monitoring ? "✅" : "❌"}`);
   console.log(`   Monitors: ${site.monitors.length}`);

   site.monitors.forEach((monitor, mIndex) => {
    console.log(
     `      ${mIndex + 1}. ${monitor.type} - ${monitor.status || "pending"}`
    );
    if (monitor.url) console.log(`         URL: ${monitor.url}`);
    if (monitor.host)
     console.log(
      `         Host: ${monitor.host}${monitor.port ? ":" + monitor.port : ""}`
     );
   });
   console.log("");
  });
 } catch (error) {
  console.error("❌ Failed to fetch sites:", error);
 }
})();
```

## Tips

- **Run snippets while the app is open**: Make sure the Uptime Watcher application is running and you have DevTools open on the renderer window
- **Check console output**: All snippets provide detailed console output about what they're doing
- **Timestamps**: The "Add Test Sites" snippets use timestamps to ensure unique identifiers
- **Monitoring is disabled**: All test sites are created with `monitoring: false` to prevent automatic checks from starting immediately
- **Test safely**: Use "Add Minimal Test Sites" for quick testing, and save the full suite for comprehensive testing

## Troubleshooting

If the snippets don't work:

1. Make sure you're in the **renderer process** (main app window), not the main process
2. Check that `window.electronAPI` is available by typing it in the console
3. Verify the application is fully loaded before running snippets
4. Check the console for error messages that explain what went wrong

Commit message:

📝 [docs] Update documentation with metadata and summaries  - Added metadata to multiple guides including UI Feature Development, Vite Performance, Zustand Store Pattern, and Validation Strategy  - Enhanced descriptions and keywords for better searchability  - Updated README files for Testing and Docusaurus with relevant summaries and metadata
🛠️ [fix] Corrected links and paths in documentation
 - Fixed paths in TSDoc README and other documentation files to ensure proper navigation
 - Updated script to check document links to include new directories

✨ [feat] Enhance alert store tests with additional scenarios
 - Added tests for deriving site names from identifiers when names are blank
 - Implemented tests for normalizing invalid timestamps to Date.now()
 - Introduced tests for identifier generation fallbacks using crypto and Date.now()

🚜 [refactor] Refactor Storybook configuration
 - Changed import paths in Storybook main configuration to include file extensions

Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/Guides/DEVTOOLS_SNIPPETS.md, after:

---
ai_note: "Updated by AI on 2025-11-15 to add metadata."
summary: "Chrome DevTools snippets for adding, listing, and removing test sites in the Uptime Watcher renderer."
creation_date: "unknown"
last_modified_date: "2025-11-15"
author: "Nick2bad4u"
title: "Chrome DevTools Snippets for Testing"
description: "Collection of Chrome DevTools snippets that exercise the Uptime Watcher renderer API for quickly seeding or cleaning test data."
category: "guide"
keywords:
  - "uptime-watcher"
  - "devtools"
  - "snippets"
  - "testing"
  - "sites"
misc:
  doc_category: "Guides"
  source: "Uptime-Watcher docs"
---

# Chrome DevTools Snippets for Testing

This document contains useful Chrome DevTools snippets for testing the Uptime Watcher application.

## How to Use These Snippets

1. Open Chrome DevTools (F12 or Right-click → Inspect)
2. Go to the **Sources** tab
3. Click on **Snippets** in the left sidebar (you may need to click the `>>` menu to find it)
4. Click **+ New snippet**
5. Give it a name (e.g., "Add Test Sites" or "Remove All Sites")
6. Paste the code from below
7. Right-click the snippet and select **Run** (or press Ctrl+Enter / Cmd+Enter)

## Snippet 1: Add Test Sites (One of Each Monitor Type)

This snippet adds one site for each supported monitor type with realistic test configurations.

```javascript
/**
 * Add Test Sites - Creates one site for each monitor type
 *
 * Creates test sites with the following monitor types:
 *
 * - HTTP
 * - HTTP Keyword
 * - HTTP Status
 * - HTTP Header
 * - HTTP JSON
 * - HTTP Latency
 * - Port
 * - Ping
 * - DNS
 * - SSL
 * - WebSocket Keepalive
 * - Server Heartbeat
 * - Replication
 * - CDN Edge Consistency
 */
(async () => {
 console.log("🚀 Starting to add test sites...");

 if (!window.electronAPI?.sites?.addSite) {
  console.error("❌ electronAPI.sites.addSite not available");
  return;
 }

 const baseTimestamp = Date.now();
 const sites = [
  {
   identifier: `test-http-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http",
     url: "https://example.com",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-http-keyword-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP Keyword Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-keyword-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http-keyword",
     url: "https://example.com",
     bodyKeyword: "Example Domain",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-http-status-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP Status Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-status-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http-status",
     url: "https://example.com",
     expectedStatusCode: 200,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-http-header-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP Header Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-header-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http-header",
     url: "https://example.com",
     headerName: "content-type",
     expectedHeaderValue: "text/html",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-http-json-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP JSON Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-json-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http-json",
     url: "https://api.example.com/status",
     jsonPath: "$.status",
     expectedJsonValue: "ok",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-http-latency-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test HTTP Latency Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-latency-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "http-latency",
     url: "https://example.com",
     latencyThreshold: 500,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-port-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test Port Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-port-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "port",
     host: "example.com",
     port: 443,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-ping-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test Ping Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-ping-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "ping",
     host: "8.8.8.8",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-dns-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test DNS Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-dns-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "dns",
     hostname: "example.com",
     recordType: "A",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-ssl-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test SSL Certificate Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-ssl-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "ssl",
     hostname: "example.com",
     certificateWarningDays: 30,
     checkInterval: 86400000, // 24 hours
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-websocket-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test WebSocket Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-websocket-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "websocket-keepalive",
     url: "wss://echo.websocket.org",
     pingMessage: "ping",
     expectedPongMessage: "ping",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-heartbeat-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test Server Heartbeat Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-heartbeat-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "server-heartbeat",
     serverIdentifier: "test-server-01",
     heartbeatInterval: 60000,
     missedHeartbeatThreshold: 3,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-replication-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test Replication Lag Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-replication-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "replication",
     primaryHost: "primary.db.example.com",
     replicaHost: "replica.db.example.com",
     lagThreshold: 5000,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `test-cdn-${baseTimestamp}`,
   name: "Test CDN Edge Consistency Monitor",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-cdn-${baseTimestamp}`,
     type: "cdn-edge-consistency",
     baselineUrl: "https://origin.example.com/test",
     edgeLocations:
      "https://edge1.cdn.example.com/test\nhttps://edge2.cdn.example.com/test",
     checkInterval: 300000, // 5 minutes
     timeout: 15000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
 ];

 let successCount = 0;
 let failCount = 0;

 for (const site of sites) {
  try {
   await window.electronAPI.sites.addSite(site);
   console.log(`✅ Added: ${site.name} (${site.monitors[0].type})`);
   successCount++;
  } catch (error) {
   console.error(`❌ Failed to add ${site.name}:`, error);
   failCount++;
  }
 }

 console.log(`\n📊 Summary:`);
 console.log(`   ✅ Successfully added: ${successCount} sites`);
 console.log(`   ❌ Failed: ${failCount} sites`);
 console.log(`\n🎉 Done! Check your dashboard for the new test sites.`);
})();
```

## Snippet 2: Remove All Sites

This snippet removes all sites from the application. **Use with caution!**

```javascript
/**
 * Remove All Sites - Deletes all sites from the database
 *
 * ⚠️ WARNING: This action cannot be undone! This will delete ALL sites and
 * their monitoring history.
 */
(async () => {
 console.log("🗑️  Starting to remove all sites...");

 if (!window.electronAPI?.sites?.deleteAllSites) {
  console.error("❌ electronAPI.sites.deleteAllSites not available");
  return;
 }

 // Confirm before deletion
 const confirmDelete = confirm(
  "⚠️ WARNING: This will delete ALL sites and their data!\n\n" +
   "This action CANNOT be undone.\n\n" +
   "Are you sure you want to continue?"
 );

 if (!confirmDelete) {
  console.log("❌ Operation cancelled by user");
  return;
 }

 try {
  const deletedCount = await window.electronAPI.sites.deleteAllSites();
  console.log(`✅ Successfully deleted ${deletedCount} site(s)`);
  console.log("🎉 All sites have been removed from the database");
 } catch (error) {
  console.error("❌ Failed to delete sites:", error);
 }
})();
```

## Snippet 3: Add Minimal Test Sites (Quick Testing)

A simpler version that adds just a few basic sites for quick testing.

```javascript
/**
 * Add Minimal Test Sites - Adds 3 basic sites for quick testing
 */
(async () => {
 console.log("🚀 Adding minimal test sites...");

 if (!window.electronAPI?.sites?.addSite) {
  console.error("❌ electronAPI.sites.addSite not available");
  return;
 }

 const timestamp = Date.now();
 const sites = [
  {
   identifier: `quick-http-${timestamp}`,
   name: "Quick HTTP Test",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-http-${timestamp}`,
     type: "http",
     url: "https://example.com",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `quick-port-${timestamp}`,
   name: "Quick Port Test",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-port-${timestamp}`,
     type: "port",
     host: "example.com",
     port: 443,
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
  {
   identifier: `quick-ping-${timestamp}`,
   name: "Quick Ping Test",
   monitoring: false,
   monitors: [
    {
     id: `monitor-ping-${timestamp}`,
     type: "ping",
     host: "8.8.8.8",
     checkInterval: 60000,
     timeout: 10000,
     retryAttempts: 3,
     monitoring: false,
     status: "pending",
     responseTime: 0,
     history: [],
    },
   ],
  },
 ];

 let count = 0;
 for (const site of sites) {
  try {
   await window.electronAPI.sites.addSite(site);
   console.log(`✅ Added: ${site.name}`);
   count++;
  } catch (error) {
   console.error(`❌ Failed to add ${site.name}:`, error);
  }
 }

 console.log(`\n✅ Added ${count} test site(s)`);
})();
```

## Snippet 4: List All Sites

View all currently configured sites in the console.

```javascript
/**
 * List All Sites - Displays all sites and their monitors
 */
(async () => {
 console.log("📋 Fetching all sites...");

 if (!window.electronAPI?.sites?.getSites) {
  console.error("❌ electronAPI.sites.getSites not available");
  return;
 }

 try {
  const sites = await window.electronAPI.sites.getSites();

  console.log(`\n📊 Total sites: ${sites.length}\n`);

  if (sites.length === 0) {
   console.log("ℹ️  No sites configured");
   return;
  }

  sites.forEach((site, index) => {
   console.log(`${index + 1}. ${site.name} (${site.identifier})`);
   console.log(`   Monitoring: ${site.monitoring ? "✅" : "❌"}`);
   console.log(`   Monitors: ${site.monitors.length}`);

   site.monitors.forEach((monitor, mIndex) => {
    console.log(
     `      ${mIndex + 1}. ${monitor.type} - ${monitor.status || "pending"}`
    );
    if (monitor.url) console.log(`         URL: ${monitor.url}`);
    if (monitor.host)
     console.log(
      `         Host: ${monitor.host}${monitor.port ? ":" + monitor.port : ""}`
     );
   });
   console.log("");
  });
 } catch (error) {
  console.error("❌ Failed to fetch sites:", error);
 }
})();
```

## Tips

- **Run snippets while the app is open**: Make sure the Uptime Watcher application is running and you have DevTools open on the renderer window
- **Check console output**: All snippets provide detailed console output about what they're doing
- **Timestamps**: The "Add Test Sites" snippets use timestamps to ensure unique identifiers
- **Monitoring is disabled**: All test sites are created with `monitoring: false` to prevent automatic checks from starting immediately
- **Test safely**: Use "Add Minimal Test Sites" for quick testing, and save the full suite for comprehensive testing

## Troubleshooting

If the snippets don't work:

1. Make sure you're in the **renderer process** (main app window), not the main process
2. Check that `window.electronAPI` is available by typing it in the console
3. Verify the application is fully loaded before running snippets
4. Check the console for error messages that explain what went wrong
