docs/Guides/DOCUMENTATION_INDEX.md, before:

---
schema: "../../config/schemas/doc-frontmatter.schema.json"
title: "Documentation Index"
summary: "Navigation hub and master index for all Uptime Watcher documentation, organized by topic and audience."
created: "2025-08-05"
last_reviewed: "2025-12-12"
category: "guide"
author: "Nick2bad4u"
tags:
  - "uptime-watcher"
  - "documentation"
  - "index"
  - "navigation"
---

# 📚 Documentation Index

## Table of Contents

1. [Quick links](#quick-links)
2. [� Documentation structure](#-documentation-structure)
3. [🎯 Documentation by Role](#-documentation-by-role)
4. [🔍 Documentation by Topic](#-documentation-by-topic)
5. [📋 Documentation Maintenance](#-documentation-maintenance)
6. [🎯 Recommended Reading Paths](#-recommended-reading-paths)

## Quick links

### Getting started

- **[Developer Quick Start](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md)** - Get up and running in minutes
- **[Environment Setup](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md)** - Complete development environment configuration

### Core documentation

- **[API Documentation](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md)** - IPC interfaces and communication patterns
- **[Troubleshooting Guide](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md)** - Common issues and solutions
- **[Testing Guide](../Guides/TESTING.md)** - Testing setup and practices

## � Documentation structure

### Root level (`/docs/`)

Essential documentation for developers and contributors:

| Document                                                 | Purpose                         | Audience                    |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| [DEVELOPER\_QUICK\_START.md](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md) | Fast developer setup            | New Contributors            |
| [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md)          | Complete environment guide      | Developers                  |
| [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md)          | IPC and API reference           | Frontend/Backend Developers |
| [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md)               | Debug and fix issues            | All Developers              |
| [TECHNOLOGY\_EVOLUTION.md](./TECHNOLOGY_EVOLUTION.md)    | Migration history and rationale | Architects, Contributors    |
| [DOCUMENTATION\_INDEX.md](./DOCUMENTATION_INDEX.md)      | This index document             | All Users                   |
| [ORGANIZATION\_SUMMARY.md](./ORGANIZATION_SUMMARY.md)    | Documentation cleanup summary   | Maintainers                 |

### 🏗️ Architecture (`/docs/Architecture/`)

System design, patterns, and architectural decisions:

#### ADRs (Architecture Decision Records)

| Document                                                                                                                         | Decision                                    | Status      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| [ADR\_001\_REPOSITORY\_PATTERN.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_001_REPOSITORY_PATTERN.md)                                           | Database access pattern                     | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_002\_EVENT\_DRIVEN\_ARCHITECTURE.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_002_EVENT_DRIVEN_ARCHITECTURE.md)                            | Event system design                         | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_003\_ERROR\_HANDLING\_STRATEGY.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_003_ERROR_HANDLING_STRATEGY.md)                                | Error handling approach                     | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_004\_FRONTEND\_STATE\_MANAGEMENT.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_004_FRONTEND_STATE_MANAGEMENT.md)                            | Zustand state management                    | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_005\_IPC\_COMMUNICATION\_PROTOCOL.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_005_IPC_COMMUNICATION_PROTOCOL.md)                          | IPC communication design                    | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_006\_STANDARDIZED\_CACHE\_CONFIGURATION.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_006_STANDARDIZED_CACHE_CONFIGURATION.md)              | Cache configuration standardization         | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_007\_SERVICE\_CONTAINER\_DEPENDENCY\_INJECTION.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_007_SERVICE_CONTAINER_DEPENDENCY_INJECTION.md) | Service container/DI                        | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_008\_MONITOR\_TYPE\_REGISTRY.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_008_MONITOR_TYPE_REGISTRY.md)                                    | Monitor type registry + plugin architecture | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_009\_VALIDATION\_STRATEGY.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_009_VALIDATION_STRATEGY.md)                                         | Validation strategy                         | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_010\_TESTING\_STRATEGY.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_010_TESTING_STRATEGY.md)                                               | Testing strategy                            | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_011\_SCHEDULER\_AND\_BACKOFF.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_011_SCHEDULER_AND_BACKOFF.md)                                    | Scheduler and backoff                       | 📝 Draft    |
| [ADR\_012\_NOTIFICATIONS\_AND\_ALERTING.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_012_NOTIFICATIONS_AND_ALERTING.md)                          | Notifications policy                        | 📝 Draft    |
| [ADR\_013\_DATA\_PORTABILITY\_AND\_BACKUP.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_013_DATA_PORTABILITY_AND_BACKUP.md)                       | Data portability + backup/restore           | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_014\_LOGGING\_TELEMETRY\_AND\_DIAGNOSTICS.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_014_LOGGING_TELEMETRY_AND_DIAGNOSTICS.md)           | Logging + diagnostics                       | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_015\_CLOUD\_SYNC\_AND\_REMOTE\_BACKUP.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_015_CLOUD_SYNC_AND_REMOTE_BACKUP.md)                    | Cloud sync + remote backups                 | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_016\_MULTI\_DEVICE\_SYNC\_MODEL.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_016_MULTI_DEVICE_SYNC_MODEL.md)                               | True multi-device sync model                | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_017\_EXTERNAL\_ALERT\_INTEGRATIONS.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_017_EXTERNAL_ALERT_INTEGRATIONS.md)                        | Slack/Discord/webhook alerts                | 💡 Proposed |
| [ADR\_018\_MAINTENANCE\_WINDOWS\_AND\_SILENCING.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_018_MAINTENANCE_WINDOWS_AND_SILENCING.md)           | Maintenance windows + silence rules         | 💡 Proposed |
| [ADR\_019\_TEMPLATES\_AND\_BULK\_OPERATIONS.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_019_TEMPLATES_AND_BULK_OPERATIONS.md)                   | Templates + bulk import/export              | 💡 Proposed |
| [ADR\_020\_SUPPORT\_DIAGNOSTICS\_BUNDLE.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_020_SUPPORT_DIAGNOSTICS_BUNDLE.md)                          | Diagnostics bundle export                   | 💡 Proposed |

#### Patterns & standards

| Document                                                                                  | Purpose                  | Use When                               |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------ | -------------------------------------- |
| [DEVELOPMENT\_PATTERNS\_GUIDE.md](../Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT_PATTERNS_GUIDE.md) | Coding patterns overview | Understanding system patterns          |
| [TSDOC\_STANDARDS.md](../Architecture/TSDOC_STANDARDS.md)                                 | Documentation standards  | Writing code documentation             |
| [LINT\_GUARDRAILS\_AND\_CUSTOM\_RULES.md](./LINT_GUARDRAILS_AND_CUSTOM_RULES.md)          | Custom lint guardrails   | Fixing architecture lint rule failures |

#### Store reference docs

| Document                                                             | Purpose                              | Use When                                  |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| [Stores/sites.md](../Architecture/Stores/sites.md)                   | Sites store + state sync reference   | Working on site mutations or state sync   |
| [Stores/settings.md](../Architecture/Stores/settings.md)             | Settings store + history limit rules | Working on settings persistence + history |
| [Stores/monitor-types.md](../Architecture/Stores/monitor-types.md)   | Monitor type config cache + helpers  | Working on monitor config/validation UI   |
| [Stores/updates.md](../Architecture/Stores/updates.md)               | Update workflow state                | Working on update checks/install flow     |
| [Stores/error.md](../Architecture/Stores/error.md)                   | Centralized error/loading state      | Standardizing error/loading handling      |
| [Stores/alerts.md](../Architecture/Stores/alerts.md)                 | Alert/toast queue                    | Working on user-facing notifications      |
| [Stores/ui.md](../Architecture/Stores/ui.md)                         | UI-only state                        | Working on view/panel toggles             |
| [Stores/confirm-dialog.md](../Architecture/Stores/confirm-dialog.md) | Confirm dialog workflow              | Working on confirmation dialogs           |

#### Templates

| Template                                                                           | Purpose                     | Use When                     |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| [REPOSITORY\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/REPOSITORY_TEMPLATE.md)        | Database repository pattern | Adding new data repositories |
| [IPC\_HANDLER\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/IPC_HANDLER_TEMPLATE.md)     | IPC communication pattern   | Adding new IPC endpoints     |
| [ZUSTAND\_STORE\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/ZUSTAND_STORE_TEMPLATE.md) | Frontend state management   | Creating new Zustand stores  |

### 📖 Implementation Guides (`/docs/Guides/`)

Step-by-step implementation instructions:

| Guide                                                                                 | Purpose                     | Complexity      |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | --------------- |
| [RENDERER\_INTEGRATION\_GUIDE.md](../Guides/RENDERER_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)            | Renderer/IPC integration    | 🟡 Intermediate |
| [NEW\_MONITOR\_TYPE\_IMPLEMENTATION.md](../Guides/NEW_MONITOR_TYPE_IMPLEMENTATION.md) | Adding monitor types        | 🟡 Intermediate |
| [UI\_FEATURE\_DEVELOPMENT\_GUIDE.md](../Guides/UI_FEATURE_DEVELOPMENT_GUIDE.md)       | Frontend development        | 🟡 Intermediate |
| [TESTING.md](../Guides/TESTING.md)                                                    | Testing setup and practices | 🟢 Beginner     |

### 📝 Historical & Learning (`/docs/`)

Relevant historical context and lessons learned:

| Document                                              | Purpose                    | Relevance                          |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| [TECHNOLOGY\_EVOLUTION.md](./TECHNOLOGY_EVOLUTION.md) | Complete migration history | Understanding current architecture |

## 🎯 Documentation by Role

### 🤖 AI Assistants

**Start Here**: [DEVELOPER\_QUICK\_START.md](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md)

- Complete project overview and patterns
- Common development tasks
- Architecture constraints and guidelines

**Follow Up**:

- [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md) - Interface reference
- [Architecture/ADRs/](../Architecture/ADRs/) - Design decisions
- [Architecture/Templates/](../Architecture/Templates/) - Code templates

### 👨‍💻 New Developers

**Start Here**: [DEVELOPER\_QUICK\_START.md](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md)

- Fast setup and orientation
- Common development tasks
- Essential patterns

**Next Steps**:

- [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) - Complete environment
- [Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT\_PATTERNS\_GUIDE.md](../Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT_PATTERNS_GUIDE.md) - Coding patterns
- [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - When things go wrong

### 🏗️ Backend Developers

**Focus Areas**:

- [ADR\_001\_REPOSITORY\_PATTERN.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_001_REPOSITORY_PATTERN.md) - Database patterns
- [ADR\_002\_EVENT\_DRIVEN\_ARCHITECTURE.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_002_EVENT_DRIVEN_ARCHITECTURE.md) - Event system
- [REPOSITORY\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/REPOSITORY_TEMPLATE.md) - Repository implementation
- [IPC\_HANDLER\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/IPC_HANDLER_TEMPLATE.md) - IPC communication

### 🎨 Frontend Developers

**Focus Areas**:

- [ADR\_004\_FRONTEND\_STATE\_MANAGEMENT.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_004_FRONTEND_STATE_MANAGEMENT.md) - State management
- [UI\_FEATURE\_DEVELOPMENT\_GUIDE.md](../Guides/UI_FEATURE_DEVELOPMENT_GUIDE.md) - Component development
- [ZUSTAND\_STORE\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/ZUSTAND_STORE_TEMPLATE.md) - Store creation
- [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md) - IPC interfaces

### 🧪 QA/Testing

**Focus Areas**:

- [TESTING.md](../Guides/TESTING.md) - Testing setup and practices
- [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Common issues
- [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) - Environment configuration

### 📐 Architects/Tech Leads

**Focus Areas**:

- [Architecture/ADRs/](../Architecture/ADRs/) - All architectural decisions
- [Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT\_PATTERNS\_GUIDE.md](../Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT_PATTERNS_GUIDE.md) - System patterns
- Historical documents for evolution understanding

## 🔍 Documentation by Topic

### 🗃️ Database & Persistence

- [ADR\_001\_REPOSITORY\_PATTERN.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_001_REPOSITORY_PATTERN.md) - Repository pattern design
- [REPOSITORY\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/REPOSITORY_TEMPLATE.md) - Implementation template
- [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md#database-issues) - Database troubleshooting

### 🔗 Communication & Events

- [ADR\_002\_EVENT\_DRIVEN\_ARCHITECTURE.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_002_EVENT_DRIVEN_ARCHITECTURE.md) - Event system
- [ADR\_005\_IPC\_COMMUNICATION\_PROTOCOL.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_005_IPC_COMMUNICATION_PROTOCOL.md) - IPC design
- [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md) - Communication interfaces
- [RENDERER\_INTEGRATION\_GUIDE.md](../Guides/RENDERER_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md) - Renderer IPC integration
- [IPC\_HANDLER\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/IPC_HANDLER_TEMPLATE.md) - IPC implementation

### 🎨 Frontend & UI

- [ADR\_004\_FRONTEND\_STATE\_MANAGEMENT.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_004_FRONTEND_STATE_MANAGEMENT.md) - State management
- [UI\_FEATURE\_DEVELOPMENT\_GUIDE.md](../Guides/UI_FEATURE_DEVELOPMENT_GUIDE.md) - UI development
- [ZUSTAND\_STORE\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/ZUSTAND_STORE_TEMPLATE.md) - Store patterns

### 🔍 Monitoring & Performance

- [NEW\_MONITOR\_TYPE\_IMPLEMENTATION.md](../Guides/NEW_MONITOR_TYPE_IMPLEMENTATION.md) - Monitor types
- [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Performance tips

### ⚠️ Error Handling & Debugging

- [ADR\_003\_ERROR\_HANDLING\_STRATEGY.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_003_ERROR_HANDLING_STRATEGY.md) - Error strategy
- [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Debug guide
- [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](../Guides/ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) - Debug tools

## 📋 Documentation Maintenance

### 📝 Contributing to Documentation

1. **Follow TSDoc Standards**: Use [TSDOC\_STANDARDS.md](../Architecture/TSDOC_STANDARDS.md)
2. **Update Index**: Add new documents to this index
3. **Cross-Reference**: Link related documents
4. **Keep Current**: Update outdated information

### 🔄 Documentation Review Process

- **Quarterly**: Review all ADRs for relevance
- **Monthly**: Update troubleshooting with new issues
- **Per Release**: Update API documentation
- **As Needed**: Update guides when patterns change

### 📊 Documentation Metrics

Track documentation health:

- Link validity (automated via GitHub Actions)
- Documentation coverage per feature
- Outdated documentation identification
- User feedback on documentation quality

## 🎯 Recommended Reading Paths

### 📚 Complete Onboarding (New Team Member)

1. [DEVELOPER\_QUICK\_START.md](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md) - Setup
2. [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) - Environment
3. [Architecture/ADRs/](../Architecture/ADRs/) - Design decisions
4. [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md) - Interfaces

### ⚡ Quick Start (Experienced Developer)

1. [DEVELOPER\_QUICK\_START.md](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md) - Setup
2. [Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT\_PATTERNS\_GUIDE.md](../Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT_PATTERNS_GUIDE.md) - Patterns

### 🐛 Debugging Focus

1. [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Issues and solutions
2. [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) - Debug tools
3. [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md) - Error patterns

### 🏗️ Architecture Deep Dive

1. [Architecture/ADRs/](../Architecture/ADRs/) - All decisions
2. Historical documents for evolution context
3. [Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT\_PATTERNS\_GUIDE.md](../Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT_PATTERNS_GUIDE.md) - Implementation patterns

---

💡 **Navigation Tip**: Use Ctrl+F (Cmd+F on Mac) to quickly find specific topics or use the GitHub search functionality for cross-document searches.

Commit message:

✨ [feat] Enhance cloud sync and backup functionality  - 📝 Update documentation to include Dropbox Cloud Sync setup guide  - 📝 Add Cloud Sync & Backups IPC section in API documentation  - 🛠️ Refactor CloudStorageProvider imports to use types file  - 🛠️ Implement new loopback port for Dropbox OAuth in DropboxAuthFlow  - 🛠️ Update CloudService tests to cover new backup migration and sync reset features  - 🛠️ Add data-testid prop to ThemedButton for improved testing
Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/Guides/DOCUMENTATION_INDEX.md, after:

---
schema: "../../config/schemas/doc-frontmatter.schema.json"
title: "Documentation Index"
summary: "Navigation hub and master index for all Uptime Watcher documentation, organized by topic and audience."
created: "2025-08-05"
last_reviewed: "2025-12-14"
category: "guide"
author: "Nick2bad4u"
tags:
  - "uptime-watcher"
  - "documentation"
  - "index"
  - "navigation"

---

# 📚 Documentation Index

## Table of Contents

1. [Quick links](#quick-links)
2. [� Documentation structure](#-documentation-structure)
3. [🎯 Documentation by Role](#-documentation-by-role)
4. [🔍 Documentation by Topic](#-documentation-by-topic)
5. [📋 Documentation Maintenance](#-documentation-maintenance)
6. [🎯 Recommended Reading Paths](#-recommended-reading-paths)

## Quick links

### Getting started

- **[Developer Quick Start](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md)** - Get up and running in minutes
- **[Environment Setup](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md)** - Complete development environment configuration

### Core documentation

- **[API Documentation](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md)** - IPC interfaces and communication patterns
- **[Troubleshooting Guide](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md)** - Common issues and solutions
- **[Testing Guide](../Guides/TESTING.md)** - Testing setup and practices

### Cloud sync + backups

- **[Dropbox Cloud Sync Setup](./CLOUD_SYNC_DROPBOX_SETUP.md)** - Configure the Dropbox OAuth app and connect from the UI

## � Documentation structure

### Root level (`/docs/`)

Essential documentation for developers and contributors:

| Document                                                 | Purpose                         | Audience                    |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| [DEVELOPER\_QUICK\_START.md](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md) | Fast developer setup            | New Contributors            |
| [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md)          | Complete environment guide      | Developers                  |
| [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md)          | IPC and API reference           | Frontend/Backend Developers |
| [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md)               | Debug and fix issues            | All Developers              |
| [TECHNOLOGY\_EVOLUTION.md](./TECHNOLOGY_EVOLUTION.md)    | Migration history and rationale | Architects, Contributors    |
| [DOCUMENTATION\_INDEX.md](./DOCUMENTATION_INDEX.md)      | This index document             | All Users                   |
| [ORGANIZATION\_SUMMARY.md](./ORGANIZATION_SUMMARY.md)    | Documentation cleanup summary   | Maintainers                 |

### 🏗️ Architecture (`/docs/Architecture/`)

System design, patterns, and architectural decisions:

#### ADRs (Architecture Decision Records)

| Document                                                                                                                         | Decision                                    | Status      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| [ADR\_001\_REPOSITORY\_PATTERN.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_001_REPOSITORY_PATTERN.md)                                           | Database access pattern                     | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_002\_EVENT\_DRIVEN\_ARCHITECTURE.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_002_EVENT_DRIVEN_ARCHITECTURE.md)                            | Event system design                         | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_003\_ERROR\_HANDLING\_STRATEGY.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_003_ERROR_HANDLING_STRATEGY.md)                                | Error handling approach                     | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_004\_FRONTEND\_STATE\_MANAGEMENT.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_004_FRONTEND_STATE_MANAGEMENT.md)                            | Zustand state management                    | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_005\_IPC\_COMMUNICATION\_PROTOCOL.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_005_IPC_COMMUNICATION_PROTOCOL.md)                          | IPC communication design                    | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_006\_STANDARDIZED\_CACHE\_CONFIGURATION.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_006_STANDARDIZED_CACHE_CONFIGURATION.md)              | Cache configuration standardization         | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_007\_SERVICE\_CONTAINER\_DEPENDENCY\_INJECTION.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_007_SERVICE_CONTAINER_DEPENDENCY_INJECTION.md) | Service container/DI                        | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_008\_MONITOR\_TYPE\_REGISTRY.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_008_MONITOR_TYPE_REGISTRY.md)                                    | Monitor type registry + plugin architecture | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_009\_VALIDATION\_STRATEGY.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_009_VALIDATION_STRATEGY.md)                                         | Validation strategy                         | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_010\_TESTING\_STRATEGY.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_010_TESTING_STRATEGY.md)                                               | Testing strategy                            | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_011\_SCHEDULER\_AND\_BACKOFF.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_011_SCHEDULER_AND_BACKOFF.md)                                    | Scheduler and backoff                       | 📝 Draft    |
| [ADR\_012\_NOTIFICATIONS\_AND\_ALERTING.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_012_NOTIFICATIONS_AND_ALERTING.md)                          | Notifications policy                        | 📝 Draft    |
| [ADR\_013\_DATA\_PORTABILITY\_AND\_BACKUP.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_013_DATA_PORTABILITY_AND_BACKUP.md)                       | Data portability + backup/restore           | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_014\_LOGGING\_TELEMETRY\_AND\_DIAGNOSTICS.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_014_LOGGING_TELEMETRY_AND_DIAGNOSTICS.md)           | Logging + diagnostics                       | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_015\_CLOUD\_SYNC\_AND\_REMOTE\_BACKUP.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_015_CLOUD_SYNC_AND_REMOTE_BACKUP.md)                    | Cloud sync + remote backups                 | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_016\_MULTI\_DEVICE\_SYNC\_MODEL.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_016_MULTI_DEVICE_SYNC_MODEL.md)                               | True multi-device sync model                | ✅ Accepted  |
| [ADR\_017\_EXTERNAL\_ALERT\_INTEGRATIONS.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_017_EXTERNAL_ALERT_INTEGRATIONS.md)                        | Slack/Discord/webhook alerts                | 💡 Proposed |
| [ADR\_018\_MAINTENANCE\_WINDOWS\_AND\_SILENCING.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_018_MAINTENANCE_WINDOWS_AND_SILENCING.md)           | Maintenance windows + silence rules         | 💡 Proposed |
| [ADR\_019\_TEMPLATES\_AND\_BULK\_OPERATIONS.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_019_TEMPLATES_AND_BULK_OPERATIONS.md)                   | Templates + bulk import/export              | 💡 Proposed |
| [ADR\_020\_SUPPORT\_DIAGNOSTICS\_BUNDLE.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_020_SUPPORT_DIAGNOSTICS_BUNDLE.md)                          | Diagnostics bundle export                   | 💡 Proposed |

#### Patterns & standards

| Document                                                                                  | Purpose                  | Use When                               |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------ | -------------------------------------- |
| [DEVELOPMENT\_PATTERNS\_GUIDE.md](../Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT_PATTERNS_GUIDE.md) | Coding patterns overview | Understanding system patterns          |
| [TSDOC\_STANDARDS.md](../Architecture/TSDOC_STANDARDS.md)                                 | Documentation standards  | Writing code documentation             |
| [LINT\_GUARDRAILS\_AND\_CUSTOM\_RULES.md](./LINT_GUARDRAILS_AND_CUSTOM_RULES.md)          | Custom lint guardrails   | Fixing architecture lint rule failures |

#### Store reference docs

| Document                                                             | Purpose                              | Use When                                  |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| [Stores/sites.md](../Architecture/Stores/sites.md)                   | Sites store + state sync reference   | Working on site mutations or state sync   |
| [Stores/settings.md](../Architecture/Stores/settings.md)             | Settings store + history limit rules | Working on settings persistence + history |
| [Stores/monitor-types.md](../Architecture/Stores/monitor-types.md)   | Monitor type config cache + helpers  | Working on monitor config/validation UI   |
| [Stores/updates.md](../Architecture/Stores/updates.md)               | Update workflow state                | Working on update checks/install flow     |
| [Stores/error.md](../Architecture/Stores/error.md)                   | Centralized error/loading state      | Standardizing error/loading handling      |
| [Stores/alerts.md](../Architecture/Stores/alerts.md)                 | Alert/toast queue                    | Working on user-facing notifications      |
| [Stores/ui.md](../Architecture/Stores/ui.md)                         | UI-only state                        | Working on view/panel toggles             |
| [Stores/confirm-dialog.md](../Architecture/Stores/confirm-dialog.md) | Confirm dialog workflow              | Working on confirmation dialogs           |

#### Templates

| Template                                                                           | Purpose                     | Use When                     |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| [REPOSITORY\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/REPOSITORY_TEMPLATE.md)        | Database repository pattern | Adding new data repositories |
| [IPC\_HANDLER\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/IPC_HANDLER_TEMPLATE.md)     | IPC communication pattern   | Adding new IPC endpoints     |
| [ZUSTAND\_STORE\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/ZUSTAND_STORE_TEMPLATE.md) | Frontend state management   | Creating new Zustand stores  |

### 📖 Implementation Guides (`/docs/Guides/`)

Step-by-step implementation instructions:

| Guide                                                                                 | Purpose                     | Complexity      |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | --------------- |
| [RENDERER\_INTEGRATION\_GUIDE.md](../Guides/RENDERER_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md)            | Renderer/IPC integration    | 🟡 Intermediate |
| [NEW\_MONITOR\_TYPE\_IMPLEMENTATION.md](../Guides/NEW_MONITOR_TYPE_IMPLEMENTATION.md) | Adding monitor types        | 🟡 Intermediate |
| [UI\_FEATURE\_DEVELOPMENT\_GUIDE.md](../Guides/UI_FEATURE_DEVELOPMENT_GUIDE.md)       | Frontend development        | 🟡 Intermediate |
| [TESTING.md](../Guides/TESTING.md)                                                    | Testing setup and practices | 🟢 Beginner     |

### 📝 Historical & Learning (`/docs/`)

Relevant historical context and lessons learned:

| Document                                              | Purpose                    | Relevance                          |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| [TECHNOLOGY\_EVOLUTION.md](./TECHNOLOGY_EVOLUTION.md) | Complete migration history | Understanding current architecture |

## 🎯 Documentation by Role

### 🤖 AI Assistants

**Start Here**: [DEVELOPER\_QUICK\_START.md](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md)

- Complete project overview and patterns
- Common development tasks
- Architecture constraints and guidelines

**Follow Up**:

- [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md) - Interface reference
- [Architecture/ADRs/](../Architecture/ADRs/) - Design decisions
- [Architecture/Templates/](../Architecture/Templates/) - Code templates

### 👨‍💻 New Developers

**Start Here**: [DEVELOPER\_QUICK\_START.md](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md)

- Fast setup and orientation
- Common development tasks
- Essential patterns

**Next Steps**:

- [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) - Complete environment
- [Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT\_PATTERNS\_GUIDE.md](../Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT_PATTERNS_GUIDE.md) - Coding patterns
- [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - When things go wrong

### 🏗️ Backend Developers

**Focus Areas**:

- [ADR\_001\_REPOSITORY\_PATTERN.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_001_REPOSITORY_PATTERN.md) - Database patterns
- [ADR\_002\_EVENT\_DRIVEN\_ARCHITECTURE.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_002_EVENT_DRIVEN_ARCHITECTURE.md) - Event system
- [REPOSITORY\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/REPOSITORY_TEMPLATE.md) - Repository implementation
- [IPC\_HANDLER\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/IPC_HANDLER_TEMPLATE.md) - IPC communication

### 🎨 Frontend Developers

**Focus Areas**:

- [ADR\_004\_FRONTEND\_STATE\_MANAGEMENT.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_004_FRONTEND_STATE_MANAGEMENT.md) - State management
- [UI\_FEATURE\_DEVELOPMENT\_GUIDE.md](../Guides/UI_FEATURE_DEVELOPMENT_GUIDE.md) - Component development
- [ZUSTAND\_STORE\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/ZUSTAND_STORE_TEMPLATE.md) - Store creation
- [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md) - IPC interfaces

### 🧪 QA/Testing

**Focus Areas**:

- [TESTING.md](../Guides/TESTING.md) - Testing setup and practices
- [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Common issues
- [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) - Environment configuration

### 📐 Architects/Tech Leads

**Focus Areas**:

- [Architecture/ADRs/](../Architecture/ADRs/) - All architectural decisions
- [Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT\_PATTERNS\_GUIDE.md](../Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT_PATTERNS_GUIDE.md) - System patterns
- Historical documents for evolution understanding

## 🔍 Documentation by Topic

### 🗃️ Database & Persistence

- [ADR\_001\_REPOSITORY\_PATTERN.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_001_REPOSITORY_PATTERN.md) - Repository pattern design
- [REPOSITORY\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/REPOSITORY_TEMPLATE.md) - Implementation template
- [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md#database-issues) - Database troubleshooting

### 🔗 Communication & Events

- [ADR\_002\_EVENT\_DRIVEN\_ARCHITECTURE.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_002_EVENT_DRIVEN_ARCHITECTURE.md) - Event system
- [ADR\_005\_IPC\_COMMUNICATION\_PROTOCOL.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_005_IPC_COMMUNICATION_PROTOCOL.md) - IPC design
- [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md) - Communication interfaces
- [RENDERER\_INTEGRATION\_GUIDE.md](../Guides/RENDERER_INTEGRATION_GUIDE.md) - Renderer IPC integration
- [IPC\_HANDLER\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/IPC_HANDLER_TEMPLATE.md) - IPC implementation

### 🎨 Frontend & UI

- [ADR\_004\_FRONTEND\_STATE\_MANAGEMENT.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_004_FRONTEND_STATE_MANAGEMENT.md) - State management
- [UI\_FEATURE\_DEVELOPMENT\_GUIDE.md](../Guides/UI_FEATURE_DEVELOPMENT_GUIDE.md) - UI development
- [ZUSTAND\_STORE\_TEMPLATE.md](../Architecture/Templates/ZUSTAND_STORE_TEMPLATE.md) - Store patterns

### 🔍 Monitoring & Performance

- [NEW\_MONITOR\_TYPE\_IMPLEMENTATION.md](../Guides/NEW_MONITOR_TYPE_IMPLEMENTATION.md) - Monitor types
- [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Performance tips

### ⚠️ Error Handling & Debugging

- [ADR\_003\_ERROR\_HANDLING\_STRATEGY.md](../Architecture/ADRs/ADR_003_ERROR_HANDLING_STRATEGY.md) - Error strategy
- [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Debug guide
- [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](../Guides/ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) - Debug tools

## 📋 Documentation Maintenance

### 📝 Contributing to Documentation

1. **Follow TSDoc Standards**: Use [TSDOC\_STANDARDS.md](../Architecture/TSDOC_STANDARDS.md)
2. **Update Index**: Add new documents to this index
3. **Cross-Reference**: Link related documents
4. **Keep Current**: Update outdated information

### 🔄 Documentation Review Process

- **Quarterly**: Review all ADRs for relevance
- **Monthly**: Update troubleshooting with new issues
- **Per Release**: Update API documentation
- **As Needed**: Update guides when patterns change

### 📊 Documentation Metrics

Track documentation health:

- Link validity (automated via GitHub Actions)
- Documentation coverage per feature
- Outdated documentation identification
- User feedback on documentation quality

## 🎯 Recommended Reading Paths

### 📚 Complete Onboarding (New Team Member)

1. [DEVELOPER\_QUICK\_START.md](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md) - Setup
2. [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) - Environment
3. [Architecture/ADRs/](../Architecture/ADRs/) - Design decisions
4. [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md) - Interfaces

### ⚡ Quick Start (Experienced Developer)

1. [DEVELOPER\_QUICK\_START.md](./DEVELOPER_QUICK_START.md) - Setup
2. [Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT\_PATTERNS\_GUIDE.md](../Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT_PATTERNS_GUIDE.md) - Patterns

### 🐛 Debugging Focus

1. [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Issues and solutions
2. [ENVIRONMENT\_SETUP.md](./ENVIRONMENT_SETUP.md) - Debug tools
3. [API\_DOCUMENTATION.md](./API_DOCUMENTATION.md) - Error patterns

### 🏗️ Architecture Deep Dive

1. [Architecture/ADRs/](../Architecture/ADRs/) - All decisions
2. Historical documents for evolution context
3. [Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT\_PATTERNS\_GUIDE.md](../Architecture/Patterns/DEVELOPMENT_PATTERNS_GUIDE.md) - Implementation patterns

---

💡 **Navigation Tip**: Use Ctrl+F (Cmd+F on Mac) to quickly find specific topics or use the GitHub search functionality for cross-document searches.
