docs/Guides/Monitoring-Race-Condition-Solution-Plan.md, before:

# Monitoring State Race Condition Solution Plan

## ✅ IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETE

**Status: FULLY IMPLEMENTED AND DEPLOYED**

All components of the race condition prevention solution have been successfully implemented and are now active in the monitoring system.

## Problem Statement

A critical architectural issue existed in the monitoring system where monitor state transitions could be overwritten by delayed check operations:

**Scenario:**

1. User starts monitoring → Monitor state becomes "monitoring: true"
2. Monitor begins health check operation (async)
3. User stops monitoring before check completes → Monitor state becomes "monitoring: false"
4. Health check completes and reports up/down status → **Would overwrite the "paused" state**

This would result in monitors appearing to be actively monitoring when they should be stopped.

## ✅ IMPLEMENTED SOLUTION

### 1. ✅ Operation Correlation System

#### A. ✅ Check Operation Tokens

```typescript
interface MonitorCheckOperation {
 id: string; // Unique operation ID (crypto.randomUUID)
 monitorId: string; // Monitor being checked
 initiatedAt: Date; // When operation started
 cancelled: boolean; // Cancellation flag
}

interface MonitorCheckResult {
 /** Optional human-readable details about the check result */
 details?: string;
 /** Optional technical error message for debugging */
 error?: string;
 /** Response time in milliseconds (REQUIRED) */
 responseTime: number;
 /** Check result status (REQUIRED) */
 status: "up" | "down";
}
```

**Note:** Operation correlation (operationId, monitorId, timestamp) is handled by the monitoring infrastructure separately from the core health check results.

**Implementation:**

- ✅ `MonitorOperationRegistry.ts` - Manages active operations with collision prevention
- ✅ `MonitorCheckResult` interface with operation correlation
- ✅ UUID-based operation IDs with retry logic for collision avoidance
  responseTime?: number; // Response time if successful
  }

#### B. ✅ Operation Registry

**Implementation: `MonitorOperationRegistry.ts`**

```typescript
class MonitorOperationRegistry {
 private activeOperations: Map<string, MonitorCheckOperation> = new Map();

 // ✅ IMPLEMENTED: UUID generation with collision prevention
 initiateCheck(monitorId: string): string {
  let operationId: string;
  let attempts = 0;
  do {
   operationId = crypto.randomUUID();
   attempts++;
  } while (this.activeOperations.has(operationId) && attempts < 5);

  if (this.activeOperations.has(operationId)) {
   throw new Error("Failed to generate unique operation ID");
  }

  const operation: MonitorCheckOperation = {
   id: operationId,
   monitorId,
   initiatedAt: new Date(),
   cancelled: false,
  };

  this.activeOperations.set(operationId, operation);
  return operationId;
 }

 // ✅ IMPLEMENTED: Operation cancellation and validation
 cancelOperations(monitorId: string): void {
  /* ... */
 }
 validateOperation(operationId: string): boolean {
  /* ... */
 }
 completeOperation(operationId: string): void {
  /* ... */
 }
}
```

### 2. ✅ State-Aware Update System

#### A. ✅ Conditional Status Updates

**Implementation: `MonitorStatusUpdateService.ts`**
class MonitorStatusUpdateService {
constructor(private operationRegistry: MonitorOperationRegistry) {}

    async updateMonitorStatus(result: MonitorCheckResult): Promise<boolean> {
        // Validate operation is still valid
        if (!this.operationRegistry.validateOperation(result.operationId)) {
### 2. ✅ Status Update Validation

**Implementation: `MonitorStatusUpdateService.ts`**

The monitoring system validates all status updates to prevent race conditions. The actual implementation uses the enhanced monitoring infrastructure which handles operation correlation internally.

```typescript
// Core health check result interface
interface MonitorCheckResult {
    details?: string;      // Optional diagnostic information
    error?: string;        // Optional error details
    responseTime: number;  // Response time in milliseconds
    status: "up" | "down"; // Health status
}

// Enhanced monitoring handles operation tracking separately
// - Operation IDs are managed by MonitorOperationRegistry
// - Status updates are validated against active monitoring state
// - Race conditions are prevented through operation correlation
```

**Key Features:**
- ✅ Operation validation before status updates
- ✅ Monitor state checking (only update if actively monitoring)
- ✅ Atomic updates within database transactions
- ✅ Automatic cleanup of completed operations

### 3. ✅ Timeout and Cleanup System

#### A. ✅ Operation Timeout Management

**Implementation: `OperationTimeoutManager.ts`**

```typescript
class OperationTimeoutManager {
    private timeouts: Map<string, NodeJS.Timeout> = new Map();

    constructor(private operationRegistry: MonitorOperationRegistry) {}

    // ✅ IMPLEMENTED: Timeout scheduling with automatic cleanup
    scheduleTimeout(operationId: string, timeoutMs: number): void {
        const timeout = setTimeout(() => {
            this.handleTimeout(operationId);
        }, timeoutMs);

        this.timeouts.set(operationId, timeout);
    }

    // ✅ IMPLEMENTED: Timeout handling with operation cancellation
    private handleTimeout(operationId: string): void {
        const operation = this.operationRegistry.getOperation(operationId);
        if (operation && !operation.cancelled) {
            logger.warn(`Operation ${operationId} timed out, cancelling`);
            operation.cancelled = true;
            this.operationRegistry.completeOperation(operationId);
        }
        this.timeouts.delete(operationId);
    }
}
        }

        this.clearTimeout(operationId);
    }

    clearTimeout(operationId: string): void {
        const timeout = this.timeouts.get(operationId);
        if (timeout) {
            clearTimeout(timeout);
            this.timeouts.delete(operationId);
        }
    }
```

### 4. ✅ Enhanced Monitor Checker Integration

#### A. ✅ Complete Implementation

**Implementation: `EnhancedMonitorChecker.ts`**

The enhanced monitoring system integrates all race condition prevention components:

- ✅ **Operation Correlation**: Every check gets a unique operation ID
- ✅ **State Validation**: Checks monitor.monitoring before processing results
- ✅ **Timeout Management**: Operations auto-cancel after timeout + buffer
- ✅ **Active Operation Tracking**: Database stores active operations per monitor
- ✅ **Event Integration**: Proper event emission to frontend via existing event system

#### B. ✅ Fallback System

**Implementation: `MonitorManager.ts`**

- ✅ Enhanced monitoring is primary system
- ✅ Traditional monitoring serves as fallback
- ✅ Seamless operation regardless of which system is used

## ✅ DEPLOYMENT STATUS

### ✅ Core Components Implemented

1. ✅ **MonitorOperationRegistry.ts** - Operation correlation with collision prevention
2. ✅ **MonitorStatusUpdateService.ts** - State-aware status updates
3. ✅ **OperationTimeoutManager.ts** - Timeout management and cleanup
4. ✅ **EnhancedMonitorChecker.ts** - Complete integration of all systems
5. ✅ **EnhancedMonitoringServiceFactory.ts** - Service composition
6. ✅ **Database Integration** - activeOperations field in monitors table
7. ✅ **Event System Integration** - Proper event forwarding to frontend
8. ✅ **Constants and Configuration** - Timeout constants and proper configuration

### ✅ Quality Improvements Implemented

1. ✅ **Security**: Operation ID validation with regex patterns
2. ✅ **Performance**: Early-return validation functions
3. ✅ **Code Quality**: Reduced cognitive complexity through helper functions
4. ✅ **Type Safety**: Proper TypeScript types with security validation
5. ✅ **Documentation**: TSDoc updates explaining fallback architecture

### ✅ User Experience Preserved

- ✅ **User Settings Respected**: Monitor timeout, retry, interval settings are honored
- ✅ **Buffer Constants**: Only apply to operation cleanup, not user-facing timeouts
- ✅ **Seamless Operation**: Enhanced system invisible to users, traditional fallback works
- ✅ **Real-time Updates**: UI updates immediately when monitor status changes

## 🎯 VERIFICATION COMPLETE

The race condition solution is **fully implemented and operational**. The monitoring system now:

## ✅ Benefits Delivered

1. ✅ **Prevents state overwrites** - Cancelled operations cannot update monitor status
2. ✅ **Provides operation correlation** - All checks are tracked with unique IDs  
3. ✅ **Implements timeout management** - Operations auto-cancel to prevent resource leaks
4. ✅ **Maintains state consistency** - Only active monitors can receive status updates
5. ✅ **Preserves user experience** - All existing functionality works seamlessly

**The monitoring system is now race-condition safe and production ready.**

## ✅ Implementation Summary

### Enhanced Monitoring Integration
- ✅ **Operation correlation**: IPC handlers use enhanced monitoring through MonitorManager
- ✅ **Result validation**: Enhanced monitoring validates operations before processing
- ✅ **Cleanup on state changes**: MonitorManager cleans up operations on stop/start

### Database Integration  
- ✅ **Operation tracking**: Added operation management methods to MonitorRepository
- ✅ **Transaction safety**: All operation updates wrapped in transactions for consistency

### Testing and Validation
- ✅ **No regression**: All existing tests pass
- ✅ **Race condition prevention**: Enhanced monitoring prevents cancelled operations from updating status
- ✅ **Operation cleanup**: Start/stop operations properly clean up active operations

Commit message:

🧹 [chore] Centralize error handling and cache key utilities
- Unifies error messaging across frontend, backend, and shared code by introducing a structured error catalog with domain-specific constants, improving maintainability and reducing typos.
- Replaces scattered error message usage with consistent imports from a shared error catalog, updating stores, utilities, and tests for type safety and clarity.
- Adds comprehensive cache key generation helpers to standardize caching patterns for configuration, site, monitor, and validation data throughout the app.
- Refactors store actions and utility functions to use new error and cache key systems, improving code readability and future extensibility.
- Updates documentation, configuration files, and test suites to reflect new architecture and error handling conventions.

docs/Guides/Monitoring-Race-Condition-Solution-Plan.md, after:

# Monitoring State Race Condition Solution Plan

## ✅ SOLUTION FULLY IMPLEMENTED

**Status: PRODUCTION READY AND DEPLOYED**

All components of the race condition prevention solution have been successfully implemented and are now active in the monitoring system. The enhanced monitoring system provides comprehensive race condition prevention through operation correlation.

## Problem Statement

A critical architectural issue existed in the monitoring system where monitor state transitions could be overwritten by delayed check operations:

**Scenario:**

1. User starts monitoring → Monitor state becomes "monitoring: true"
2. Monitor begins health check operation (async)
3. User stops monitoring before check completes → Monitor state becomes "monitoring: false"
4. Health check completes and reports up/down status → **Would overwrite the "paused" state**

This would result in monitors appearing to be actively monitoring when they should be stopped.

## ✅ IMPLEMENTED SOLUTION

### 1. ✅ Operation Correlation System

#### A. ✅ Check Operation Tokens

```typescript
interface MonitorCheckOperation {
 id: string; // Unique operation ID (crypto.randomUUID)
 monitorId: string; // Monitor being checked
 initiatedAt: Date; // When operation started
 cancelled: boolean; // Cancellation flag
}

interface MonitorCheckResult {
 /** Optional human-readable details about the check result */
 details?: string;
 /** Optional technical error message for debugging */
 error?: string;
 /** Response time in milliseconds (REQUIRED) */
 responseTime: number;
 /** Check result status (REQUIRED) */
 status: "up" | "down";
}
```

**Note:** Operation correlation (operationId, monitorId, timestamp) is handled by the monitoring infrastructure separately from the core health check results.

**Implementation:**

- ✅ `MonitorOperationRegistry.ts` - Manages active operations with collision prevention
- ✅ `MonitorCheckResult` interface with operation correlation
- ✅ UUID-based operation IDs with retry logic for collision avoidance
  responseTime?: number; // Response time if successful
  }

#### B. ✅ Operation Registry

**Implementation: `MonitorOperationRegistry.ts`**

```typescript
class MonitorOperationRegistry {
 private activeOperations: Map<string, MonitorCheckOperation> = new Map();

 // ✅ IMPLEMENTED: UUID generation with collision prevention
 initiateCheck(monitorId: string): string {
  let operationId: string;
  let attempts = 0;
  do {
   operationId = crypto.randomUUID();
   attempts++;
  } while (this.activeOperations.has(operationId) && attempts < 5);

  if (this.activeOperations.has(operationId)) {
   throw new Error("Failed to generate unique operation ID");
  }

  const operation: MonitorCheckOperation = {
   id: operationId,
   monitorId,
   initiatedAt: new Date(),
   cancelled: false,
  };

  this.activeOperations.set(operationId, operation);
  return operationId;
 }

 // ✅ IMPLEMENTED: Operation cancellation and validation
 cancelOperations(monitorId: string): void {
  /* ... */
 }
 validateOperation(operationId: string): boolean {
  /* ... */
 }
 completeOperation(operationId: string): void {
  /* ... */
 }
}
```

### 2. ✅ State-Aware Update System

#### A. ✅ Conditional Status Updates

**Implementation: `MonitorStatusUpdateService.ts`**
class MonitorStatusUpdateService {
constructor(private operationRegistry: MonitorOperationRegistry) {}

    async updateMonitorStatus(result: MonitorCheckResult): Promise<boolean> {
        // Validate operation is still valid
        if (!this.operationRegistry.validateOperation(result.operationId)) {
### 2. ✅ Status Update Validation

**Implementation: `MonitorStatusUpdateService.ts`**

The monitoring system validates all status updates to prevent race conditions. The actual implementation uses the enhanced monitoring infrastructure which handles operation correlation internally.

```typescript
// Core health check result interface
interface MonitorCheckResult {
    details?: string;      // Optional diagnostic information
    error?: string;        // Optional error details
    responseTime: number;  // Response time in milliseconds
    status: "up" | "down"; // Health status
}

// Enhanced monitoring handles operation tracking separately
// - Operation IDs are managed by MonitorOperationRegistry
// - Status updates are validated against active monitoring state
// - Race conditions are prevented through operation correlation
```

**Key Features:**
- ✅ Operation validation before status updates
- ✅ Monitor state checking (only update if actively monitoring)
- ✅ Atomic updates within database transactions
- ✅ Automatic cleanup of completed operations

### 3. ✅ Timeout and Cleanup System

#### A. ✅ Operation Timeout Management

**Implementation: `OperationTimeoutManager.ts`**

```typescript
class OperationTimeoutManager {
    private timeouts: Map<string, NodeJS.Timeout> = new Map();

    constructor(private operationRegistry: MonitorOperationRegistry) {}

    // ✅ IMPLEMENTED: Timeout scheduling with automatic cleanup
    scheduleTimeout(operationId: string, timeoutMs: number): void {
        const timeout = setTimeout(() => {
            this.handleTimeout(operationId);
        }, timeoutMs);

        this.timeouts.set(operationId, timeout);
    }

    // ✅ IMPLEMENTED: Timeout handling with operation cancellation
    private handleTimeout(operationId: string): void {
        const operation = this.operationRegistry.getOperation(operationId);
        if (operation && !operation.cancelled) {
            logger.warn(`Operation ${operationId} timed out, cancelling`);
            operation.cancelled = true;
            this.operationRegistry.completeOperation(operationId);
        }
        this.timeouts.delete(operationId);
    }
}
        }

        this.clearTimeout(operationId);
    }

    clearTimeout(operationId: string): void {
        const timeout = this.timeouts.get(operationId);
        if (timeout) {
            clearTimeout(timeout);
            this.timeouts.delete(operationId);
        }
    }
```

### 4. ✅ Enhanced Monitor Checker Integration

#### A. ✅ Complete Implementation

**Implementation: `EnhancedMonitorChecker.ts`**

The enhanced monitoring system integrates all race condition prevention components:

- ✅ **Operation Correlation**: Every check gets a unique operation ID
- ✅ **State Validation**: Checks monitor.monitoring before processing results
- ✅ **Timeout Management**: Operations auto-cancel after timeout + buffer
- ✅ **Active Operation Tracking**: Database stores active operations per monitor
- ✅ **Event Integration**: Proper event emission to frontend via existing event system

#### B. ✅ Fallback System

**Implementation: `MonitorManager.ts`**

- ✅ Enhanced monitoring is primary system
- ✅ Traditional monitoring serves as fallback
- ✅ Seamless operation regardless of which system is used

## ✅ DEPLOYMENT STATUS

### ✅ Core Components Implemented

1. ✅ **MonitorOperationRegistry.ts** - Operation correlation with collision prevention
2. ✅ **MonitorStatusUpdateService.ts** - State-aware status updates
3. ✅ **OperationTimeoutManager.ts** - Timeout management and cleanup
4. ✅ **EnhancedMonitorChecker.ts** - Complete integration of all systems
5. ✅ **EnhancedMonitoringServiceFactory.ts** - Service composition
6. ✅ **Database Integration** - activeOperations field in monitors table
7. ✅ **Event System Integration** - Proper event forwarding to frontend
8. ✅ **Constants and Configuration** - Timeout constants and proper configuration

### ✅ Quality Improvements Implemented

1. ✅ **Security**: Operation ID validation with regex patterns
2. ✅ **Performance**: Early-return validation functions
3. ✅ **Code Quality**: Reduced cognitive complexity through helper functions
4. ✅ **Type Safety**: Proper TypeScript types with security validation
5. ✅ **Documentation**: TSDoc updates explaining fallback architecture

### ✅ User Experience Preserved

- ✅ **User Settings Respected**: Monitor timeout, retry, interval settings are honored
- ✅ **Buffer Constants**: Only apply to operation cleanup, not user-facing timeouts
- ✅ **Seamless Operation**: Enhanced system invisible to users, traditional fallback works
- ✅ **Real-time Updates**: UI updates immediately when monitor status changes

## 🎯 VERIFICATION COMPLETE

The race condition solution is **fully implemented and operational**. The monitoring system now:

## ✅ Benefits Delivered

1. ✅ **Prevents state overwrites** - Cancelled operations cannot update monitor status
2. ✅ **Provides operation correlation** - All checks are tracked with unique IDs  
3. ✅ **Implements timeout management** - Operations auto-cancel to prevent resource leaks
4. ✅ **Maintains state consistency** - Only active monitors can receive status updates
5. ✅ **Preserves user experience** - All existing functionality works seamlessly

**The monitoring system is now race-condition safe and production ready.**

## ✅ Implementation Summary

### Enhanced Monitoring Integration
- ✅ **Operation correlation**: IPC handlers use enhanced monitoring through MonitorManager
- ✅ **Result validation**: Enhanced monitoring validates operations before processing
- ✅ **Cleanup on state changes**: MonitorManager cleans up operations on stop/start

### Database Integration  
- ✅ **Operation tracking**: Added operation management methods to MonitorRepository
- ✅ **Transaction safety**: All operation updates wrapped in transactions for consistency

### Testing and Validation
- ✅ **No regression**: All existing tests pass
- ✅ **Race condition prevention**: Enhanced monitoring prevents cancelled operations from updating status
- ✅ **Operation cleanup**: Start/stop operations properly clean up active operations
