docs/Guides/TECHNOLOGY_EVOLUTION.md, before:

## 🔄 Technology Evolution Guide

> **Migration History**: Understanding how Uptime Watcher evolved to its current sophisticated architecture.

### 📋 Overview

Uptime Watcher has undergone significant architectural evolution to become the robust, enterprise-grade monitoring application it is today. This document explains the technology migrations, their rationale, and current state.

## 🏗️ Architectural Evolution Timeline

### Phase 1: Initial Prototype (Early Development)

#### **Simple Monitoring Application**

```yaml
Frontend: Basic React + JavaScript
State: Local component state
Database: JSON files
HTTP: Direct Axios calls
Architecture: Monolithic renderer process
```

**Characteristics:**

- Simple file-based storage
- Direct HTTP requests from frontend
- Minimal error handling
- Basic monitoring capabilities

### Phase 2: Structured Application (Mid Development)

#### **Introduction of TypeScript and Basic Architecture**

```yaml
Frontend: React + TypeScript
State: React Context
Database: LowDB (JSON-based)
HTTP: Axios with basic error handling
Architecture: Separated concerns
```

**Key Changes:**

- ✅ Added TypeScript for type safety
- ✅ Introduced state management patterns
- ✅ Structured database approach with LowDB
- ✅ Better error handling

### Phase 3: Current Architecture (Present)

#### **Enterprise-Grade Service-Oriented Architecture**

```yaml
Frontend: React + TypeScript + Tailwind CSS + Vite
State: Zustand (modular composition pattern)
Database: SQLite (node-sqlite3-wasm) with repository pattern
IPC: Type-safe Electron contextBridge with validation
Events: TypedEventBus with middleware and automatic metadata
Architecture: Service-oriented with dependency injection
Testing: Vitest (dual configuration) with comprehensive mocking
Monitoring: Enhanced monitoring with race condition prevention
Error Handling: Centralized error store with withErrorHandling utility
```

**Transformation Highlights:**

- 🚀 **Complete database migration**: LowDB → SQLite with transaction safety
- 🏗️ **Architectural overhaul**: Monolithic → Service-oriented with DI
- 🔒 **Enhanced security**: Type-safe IPC with registerStandardizedIpcHandler
- 📊 **Advanced monitoring**: Operation correlation and race condition prevention
- 🎯 **Event-driven architecture**: TypedEventBus with automatic metadata and IPC forwarding
- 🧪 **Comprehensive testing**: Dual test configuration with ElectronAPI mocking
- 📚 **Extensive documentation**: ADRs, guides, and current implementation patterns
- 🛡️ **Robust error handling**: Centralized error management with domain isolation
- 🔄 **Modular state management**: Zustand composition pattern for complex stores

### 🗃️ Database Migration: LowDB → SQLite

#### Why the Migration?

##### LowDB Limitations

- **Performance**: JSON file operations became slow with large datasets
- **Concurrency**: No transaction support, prone to corruption
- **Scalability**: Memory usage grew with database size
- **Features**: Limited querying capabilities
- **Reliability**: No ACID compliance

##### SQLite Benefits

- **Performance**: Efficient indexing and querying
- **ACID Compliance**: Transactional integrity
- **Concurrency**: Proper locking mechanisms
- **Memory Efficient**: Only loads needed data
- **Feature Rich**: Advanced SQL querying
- **WASM Support**: Browser-compatible via node-sqlite3-wasm

#### Migration Implementation

##### Before (LowDB)

```typescript
// Simple JSON-based storage
import { JSONFileSync, LowSync } from "lowdb";

const adapter = new JSONFileSync("db.json");
const db = new LowSync(adapter);

// Basic operations
db.read();
db.data.sites.push(newSite);
db.write();
```

##### After (SQLite)

```typescript
// Sophisticated repository pattern
export class SiteRepository {
 async create(site: Site): Promise<Site> {
  return withDatabaseOperation(async () => {
   return await this.databaseService.executeTransaction(async (db) => {
    const stmt = db.prepare(SITE_QUERIES.INSERT);
    const result = stmt.run(site);
    return { ...site, id: result.lastInsertRowid.toString() };
   });
  });
 }
}
```

##### Migration Process

1. **Schema Design**: Created comprehensive SQLite schema
2. **Repository Pattern**: Implemented data access layer
3. **Transaction Safety**: All operations wrapped in transactions
4. **Data Migration**: Automated migration from JSON to SQLite
5. **Testing**: Extensive testing of new database layer

### 🎨 Frontend Evolution

#### State Management: React Context → Zustand

##### Problems with Context

- **Performance**: Unnecessary re-renders
- **Complexity**: Provider hell with multiple contexts
- **Boilerplate**: Verbose reducer patterns
- **Type Safety**: Complex type definitions

##### Zustand Advantages

- **Performance**: Selective subscriptions
- **Simplicity**: Minimal boilerplate
- **Flexibility**: Modular store composition
- **TypeScript**: Excellent type inference

##### Migration Example

###### **Before (React Context)**:

```typescript
// Complex provider setup
const SitesContext = createContext<SitesContextType | undefined>(undefined);

export const SitesProvider: React.FC = ({ children }) => {
 const [sites, setSites] = useState<Site[]>([]);
 const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);

 // Complex reducer logic...

 return (
  <SitesContext.Provider value={{ sites, setSites, loading, setLoading }}>
   {children}
  </SitesContext.Provider>
 );
};
```

###### **After (Zustand with Modular Composition)**:

```typescript
// Modular store composition for complex stores
export const createSitesStateActions = (
 set: SetState<SitesStore>,
 get: GetState<SitesStore>
) => ({
 addSite: async (siteData: SiteCreationData) => {
  const newSite = await window.electronAPI.sites.create(siteData);
  set((state) => ({ sites: [...state.sites, newSite] }));
  return newSite;
 },
 updateSite: async (siteIdentifier: string, updates: Partial<Site>) => {
  const updatedSite = await window.electronAPI.sites.update(
   siteIdentifier,
   updates
  );
  set((state) => ({
   sites: state.sites.map((site) =>
    site.identifier === siteIdentifier ? updatedSite : site
   ),
  }));
 },
});

export const createSiteOperationsActions = (
 set: SetState<SitesStore>,
 get: GetState<SitesStore>
) => ({
 deleteSite: async (siteIdentifier: string) => {
  await window.electronAPI.sites.delete(siteIdentifier);
  set((state) => ({
   sites: state.sites.filter((site) => site.identifier !== siteIdentifier),
  }));
 },
});

// Main store combines modular actions
export const useSitesStore = create<SitesStore>()((set, get) => ({
 sites: [],
 loading: false,

 // Combine modular action sets
 ...createSitesStateActions(set, get),
 ...createSiteOperationsActions(set, get),
}));

// Simple stores use direct create pattern
export const useUIStore = create<UIStore>((set) => ({
 sidebarOpen: false,
 toggleSidebar: () => set((state) => ({ sidebarOpen: !state.sidebarOpen })),
}));
```

#### Build System: webpack → Vite

#### Migration Benefits

- **Speed**: Faster development builds
- **HMR**: Better hot module replacement
- **Simplicity**: Less configuration
- **Modern**: ES modules and tree shaking

#### Event System: Basic Events → TypedEventBus

##### Problems with Basic Event System

- **Type Safety**: No compile-time validation of event data
- **Debugging**: Difficult to trace event flow
- **Metadata**: No automatic event correlation or debugging information
- **IPC Integration**: Manual event forwarding between main and renderer processes

##### TypedEventBus Benefits

- **Type Safety**: Compile-time validation of event names and data
- **Automatic Metadata**: Correlation IDs, timestamps, and debugging info
- **Middleware Support**: Cross-cutting concerns like logging and validation
- **IPC Integration**: Automatic event forwarding via EventsService
- **Debugging**: Comprehensive diagnostics and event tracing

##### Event System Migration Example

###### **Before (Basic Events)**:

```typescript
// No type safety, manual IPC forwarding
emitter.emit("site:updated", someData); // any type
ipcMain.emit("forward-to-renderer", "site:updated", someData); // manual forwarding

// In renderer
ipcRenderer.on("site:updated", (event, data) => {
 // data is any, no correlation info
 handleSiteUpdate(data);
});
```

###### **After (TypedEventBus)**:

```typescript
// Type-safe events with automatic metadata
interface AppEvents {
 "site:updated": { siteIdentifier: string; changes: Partial<Site> };
}

const eventBus = new TypedEventBus<AppEvents>("app-events");

// Backend emission with automatic metadata
await eventBus.emitTyped("site:updated", {
 siteIdentifier: "site_123",
 changes: { name: "New Name" },
});

// Frontend handling via EventsService
const cleanup = await EventsService.onSiteUpdated((data) => {
 // data is fully typed with automatic metadata
 console.log(`Site ${data.siteIdentifier} updated`, data._meta.correlationId);
 handleSiteUpdate(data);
});
```

### 🔧 Architecture Transformation

#### Monolithic → Service-Oriented

##### Before: Monolithic Approach

```text
src/
├── components/     # All React components
├── utils/         # Mixed utilities
├── api/           # Direct API calls
└── main.tsx       # Everything initialized here
```

##### After: Service-Oriented Architecture

```text
electron/
├── services/           # Categorized services
│   ├── database/      # Repository pattern
│   ├── monitoring/    # Monitoring services
│   ├── ipc/          # IPC communication
│   └── notifications/ # Notification services
├── managers/          # Business logic orchestrators
└── ServiceContainer.ts # Dependency injection

src/
├── components/        # React components
├── stores/           # Zustand state management
├── services/         # Frontend services
└── main.tsx          # Clean initialization
```

#### Key Architectural Improvements

##### 1. Dependency Injection

###### **Before**: Manual service instantiation

```typescript
// Scattered service creation
const siteService = new SiteService();
const monitorService = new MonitorService();
```

###### **After**: Centralized container

```typescript
// ServiceContainer manages all dependencies
export class ServiceContainer {
 private services = new Map<string, unknown>();

 get<T>(key: string): T {
  return this.services.get(key) as T;
 }
}
```

##### 2. Event-Driven Communication

###### **Before**: Direct method calls

```typescript
// Tight coupling
siteService.updateSite(site);
uiManager.refreshSites(); // Manual coordination
```

###### **After**: Event-driven

```typescript
// Loose coupling via events
await eventBus.emitTyped("sites:updated", { site });
// UI automatically updates via event subscription
```

##### 3. Type-Safe IPC

###### **Before**: Untyped communication

```typescript
// No type safety
ipcMain.handle("create-site", async (event, data) => {
 return await createSite(data); // data is any
});
```

###### **After**: Fully typed with validation

```typescript
// Complete type safety with validation
export class IPCService {
 registerStandardizedIpcHandler<T, R>(
  channel: string,
  handler: (data: T) => Promise<R> | R,
  validator: (data: unknown) => data is T,
  options?: IpcHandlerOptions
 ): void {
  ipcMain.handle(channel, async (event, data: unknown) => {
   // Automatic validation
   if (!validator(data)) {
    throw new Error(`Invalid data for channel ${channel}`);
   }

   // Type-safe handler execution
   return await handler(data);
  });
 }
}

// Usage with type guards
ipcService.registerStandardizedIpcHandler(
 "sites:create",
 async (data: SiteCreationData) => {
  return await siteManager.createSite(data);
 },
 isSiteCreationData // Type guard ensures validation
);
```

### 🔍 Monitoring System Evolution

#### Basic → Enhanced Monitoring

##### Phase 1: Basic Monitoring

- Simple HTTP requests
- Basic status checking
- No operation correlation
- Race conditions possible

##### Phase 2: Enhanced Monitoring

- **Operation Correlation**: UUID-based operation tracking
- **Race Condition Prevention**: Validates operations before updates
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Structured logging with correlation IDs
- **Error Recovery**: Sophisticated retry and fallback mechanisms

#### Monitor Type Architecture

##### Extensible Monitor System

```typescript
// Clean interface-based design
interface IMonitorService {
 check(config: MonitorConfig): Promise<MonitorCheckResult>;
 validateConfig(config: unknown): config is MonitorConfig;
}

// Easy to add new monitor types
export class CustomMonitorService implements IMonitorService {
 async check(config: CustomMonitorConfig): Promise<MonitorCheckResult> {
  // Custom monitoring logic
 }
}
```

### 🧪 Testing Evolution

#### Manual → Comprehensive Automated Testing

##### Before: Manual Testing

- Manual verification of features
- No automated test coverage
- Bugs discovered in production

##### After: Comprehensive Test Suite

- **Dual Configuration**: Separate tests for frontend and backend
- **Unit Tests**: Service and component testing
- **Integration Tests**: IPC and database testing
- **Type Testing**: TypeScript compilation verification
- **Coverage Reports**: Automated coverage tracking

```bash
# Current testing capabilities
npm run test:all              # All tests (frontend + electron + shared)
npm run test:electron         # Backend tests
npm run test:frontend         # Frontend tests
npm run test:shared           # Shared utility tests
npm run test:all:coverage     # Coverage reports (all configurations)
```

### 📚 Documentation Evolution

#### Minimal → Comprehensive Documentation

##### Before: Basic README

- Simple setup instructions
- Minimal architecture information
- No contribution guidelines

##### After: Extensive Documentation Ecosystem

- **Architecture Decision Records (ADRs)**: Design decisions
- **Implementation Guides**: Step-by-step instructions
- **API Documentation**: Complete interface reference
- **Troubleshooting**: Common issues and solutions
- **AI Context**: Quick onboarding for AI assistants
- **Code Templates**: Consistent patterns

### 🔄 Current Migration Status

#### ✅ Completed Migrations

- [x] **Database**: LowDB → SQLite (COMPLETE)
- [x] **State Management**: React Context → Zustand with modular composition (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Build System**: webpack → Vite (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Architecture**: Monolithic → Service-oriented (COMPLETE)
- [x] **IPC**: Untyped → Type-safe with validation (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Event System**: Basic events → TypedEventBus with metadata (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Monitoring**: Basic → Enhanced with race condition prevention (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Testing**: Manual → Automated with comprehensive mocking (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Documentation**: Minimal → Comprehensive with current patterns (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Error Handling**: Scattered → Centralized with withErrorHandling utility (COMPLETE)

#### 🔧 Ongoing Improvements

- **Performance Optimization**: Continuous monitoring and optimization
- **Security Enhancements**: Regular security audits and updates
- **Feature Expansion**: New monitor types and capabilities
- **Documentation Maintenance**: Keeping documentation current

### 📈 Impact of Evolution

#### Performance Improvements

- **Database Operations**: 90% faster with SQLite transactions
- **UI Responsiveness**: Eliminated unnecessary re-renders with Zustand
- **Build Times**: 70% faster with Vite
- **Memory Usage**: 60% reduction with proper state management

#### Developer Experience

- **Type Safety**: 100% TypeScript coverage eliminates runtime errors
- **Development Speed**: Hot reload and fast builds
- **Code Quality**: Automated linting and formatting
- **Documentation**: Comprehensive guides reduce onboarding time

#### Reliability Improvements

- **Error Handling**: Centralized error management
- **Race Conditions**: Eliminated through operation correlation
- **Data Integrity**: ACID compliance with SQLite transactions
- **Testing Coverage**: Automated test suite prevents regressions

### 🎯 Future Evolution Plans

#### Short Term (Next 3 months)

- **Performance Metrics**: Add performance monitoring
- **Enhanced Notifications**: Rich notification system
- **Mobile Support**: PWA capabilities exploration

#### Medium Term (Next 6 months)

- **Plugin System**: Extensible plugin architecture
- **Cloud Sync**: Optional cloud data synchronization
- **Advanced Analytics**: Trend analysis and reporting

#### Long Term (Next year)

- **Multi-Instance**: Support for multiple monitoring instances
- **Enterprise Features**: Advanced security and compliance
- **Machine Learning**: Predictive failure detection

### 💡 Lessons Learned

#### Migration Best Practices

1. **Incremental Changes**: Migrate one system at a time
2. **Maintain Compatibility**: Keep old systems running during transition
3. **Comprehensive Testing**: Test each migration thoroughly
4. **Documentation**: Document decisions and rationale
5. **User Impact**: Minimize disruption to end users

#### Architecture Principles

1. **Separation of Concerns**: Each service has a single responsibility
2. **Type Safety**: TypeScript everywhere prevents runtime errors
3. **Event-Driven**: Loose coupling through events
4. **Testability**: Design for easy testing
5. **Documentation**: Code should be self-documenting

---

🎉 **Evolution Success**: The migration from a simple prototype to an enterprise-grade monitoring application demonstrates the power of incremental improvement and architectural discipline.

Commit message:

✨ [feat] Implement optimistic updates and IPC automation
This commit introduces significant enhancements to the application's IPC protocol, state synchronization, and developer tooling.

✨ [feat] Optimistic UI Updates & Event Sync
- Implements optimistic updates for manual monitor checks. The UI now reflects the check result immediately by applying the returned `StatusUpdate` payload, rather than waiting for the event broadcast.
- Introduces a new `settings:history-limit-updated` event to synchronize database retention policy changes (e.g., from imports or migrations) with the renderer's settings store, ensuring UI consistency. The payload includes both new and previous values for contextual display.

🚜 [refactor] Standardize IPC Channel Naming
- Overhauls the IPC channel naming convention from `domain:action` (e.g., `sites:add`) to a verb-first, hyphenated format (e.g., `add-site`). This improves clarity and consistency across the API surface.
- Broadcast event channels retain their `domain:event-name` structure to distinguish them from invoke channels.

🛠️ [tooling] Automate IPC Artifact Generation
- Adds new npm scripts to automate IPC contract management:
  - `npm run generate:ipc`: Rebuilds the preload bridge type definitions and generates a canonical IPC channel inventory markdown file.
  - `npm run check:ipc`: A CI script to detect and prevent drift between the source code schema and the generated documentation.

📝 [docs] Update Architecture & Development Guides
- Updates all relevant documentation, including ADRs, development guides, and API references, to reflect the new IPC naming convention and synchronization patterns.
- Adds a new auto-generated `ipc-channel-inventory.md` file as the single source of truth for all IPC channels.

Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/Guides/TECHNOLOGY_EVOLUTION.md, after:

## 🔄 Technology Evolution Guide

> **Migration History**: Understanding how Uptime Watcher evolved to its current sophisticated architecture.

### 📋 Overview

Uptime Watcher has undergone significant architectural evolution to become the robust, enterprise-grade monitoring application it is today. This document explains the technology migrations, their rationale, and current state.

## 🏗️ Architectural Evolution Timeline

### Phase 1: Initial Prototype (Early Development)

#### **Simple Monitoring Application**

```yaml
Frontend: Basic React + JavaScript
State: Local component state
Database: JSON files
HTTP: Direct Axios calls
Architecture: Monolithic renderer process
```

**Characteristics:**

- Simple file-based storage
- Direct HTTP requests from frontend
- Minimal error handling
- Basic monitoring capabilities

### Phase 2: Structured Application (Mid Development)

#### **Introduction of TypeScript and Basic Architecture**

```yaml
Frontend: React + TypeScript
State: React Context
Database: LowDB (JSON-based)
HTTP: Axios with basic error handling
Architecture: Separated concerns
```

**Key Changes:**

- ✅ Added TypeScript for type safety
- ✅ Introduced state management patterns
- ✅ Structured database approach with LowDB
- ✅ Better error handling

### Phase 3: Current Architecture (Present)

#### **Enterprise-Grade Service-Oriented Architecture**

```yaml
Frontend: React + TypeScript + Tailwind CSS + Vite
State: Zustand (modular composition pattern)
Database: SQLite (node-sqlite3-wasm) with repository pattern
IPC: Type-safe Electron contextBridge with validation
Events: TypedEventBus with middleware and automatic metadata
Architecture: Service-oriented with dependency injection
Testing: Vitest (dual configuration) with comprehensive mocking
Monitoring: Enhanced monitoring with race condition prevention
Error Handling: Centralized error store with withErrorHandling utility
```

**Transformation Highlights:**

- 🚀 **Complete database migration**: LowDB → SQLite with transaction safety
- 🏗️ **Architectural overhaul**: Monolithic → Service-oriented with DI
- 🔒 **Enhanced security**: Type-safe IPC with registerStandardizedIpcHandler
- 📊 **Advanced monitoring**: Operation correlation and race condition prevention
- 🎯 **Event-driven architecture**: TypedEventBus with automatic metadata and IPC forwarding
- 🧪 **Comprehensive testing**: Dual test configuration with ElectronAPI mocking
- 📚 **Extensive documentation**: ADRs, guides, and current implementation patterns
- 🛡️ **Robust error handling**: Centralized error management with domain isolation
- 🔄 **Modular state management**: Zustand composition pattern for complex stores

### 2025-10-26: Retention Sync & IPC Automation

- ✅ Introduced the `settings:history-limit-updated` broadcast so renderer
  settings stay aligned with database migrations, imports, and orchestrator
  adjustments. The store subscribes via `EventsService.onHistoryLimitUpdated`
  and applies changes idempotently.
- ⚡ Manual monitor checks now hydrate the store immediately using the shared
  `applyStatusUpdateSnapshot` reducer. Users receive instant feedback while the
  backend processes the confirmation event.
- 🛠️ Established an automated IPC artifact generator:
  - `npm run generate:ipc` refreshes `shared/types/eventsBridge.ts` and the
    canonical inventory in `docs/Architecture/generated/ipc-channel-inventory.md`.
  - `npm run check:ipc` enforces documentation parity during CI runs.
- 📓 Updated the development patterns guide to codify the new synchronization
  responsibilities for settings and manual checks.

### 🗃️ Database Migration: LowDB → SQLite

#### Why the Migration?

##### LowDB Limitations

- **Performance**: JSON file operations became slow with large datasets
- **Concurrency**: No transaction support, prone to corruption
- **Scalability**: Memory usage grew with database size
- **Features**: Limited querying capabilities
- **Reliability**: No ACID compliance

##### SQLite Benefits

- **Performance**: Efficient indexing and querying
- **ACID Compliance**: Transactional integrity
- **Concurrency**: Proper locking mechanisms
- **Memory Efficient**: Only loads needed data
- **Feature Rich**: Advanced SQL querying
- **WASM Support**: Browser-compatible via node-sqlite3-wasm

#### Migration Implementation

##### Before (LowDB)

```typescript
// Simple JSON-based storage
import { JSONFileSync, LowSync } from "lowdb";

const adapter = new JSONFileSync("db.json");
const db = new LowSync(adapter);

// Basic operations
db.read();
db.data.sites.push(newSite);
db.write();
```

##### After (SQLite)

```typescript
// Sophisticated repository pattern
export class SiteRepository {
 async create(site: Site): Promise<Site> {
  return withDatabaseOperation(async () => {
   return await this.databaseService.executeTransaction(async (db) => {
    const stmt = db.prepare(SITE_QUERIES.INSERT);
    const result = stmt.run(site);
    return { ...site, id: result.lastInsertRowid.toString() };
   });
  });
 }
}
```

##### Migration Process

1. **Schema Design**: Created comprehensive SQLite schema
2. **Repository Pattern**: Implemented data access layer
3. **Transaction Safety**: All operations wrapped in transactions
4. **Data Migration**: Automated migration from JSON to SQLite
5. **Testing**: Extensive testing of new database layer

### 🎨 Frontend Evolution

#### State Management: React Context → Zustand

##### Problems with Context

- **Performance**: Unnecessary re-renders
- **Complexity**: Provider hell with multiple contexts
- **Boilerplate**: Verbose reducer patterns
- **Type Safety**: Complex type definitions

##### Zustand Advantages

- **Performance**: Selective subscriptions
- **Simplicity**: Minimal boilerplate
- **Flexibility**: Modular store composition
- **TypeScript**: Excellent type inference

##### Migration Example

###### **Before (React Context)**:

```typescript
// Complex provider setup
const SitesContext = createContext<SitesContextType | undefined>(undefined);

export const SitesProvider: React.FC = ({ children }) => {
 const [sites, setSites] = useState<Site[]>([]);
 const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);

 // Complex reducer logic...

 return (
  <SitesContext.Provider value={{ sites, setSites, loading, setLoading }}>
   {children}
  </SitesContext.Provider>
 );
};
```

###### **After (Zustand with Modular Composition)**:

```typescript
// Modular store composition for complex stores
export const createSitesStateActions = (
 set: SetState<SitesStore>,
 get: GetState<SitesStore>
) => ({
 addSite: async (siteData: SiteCreationData) => {
  const newSite = await window.electronAPI.sites.create(siteData);
  set((state) => ({ sites: [...state.sites, newSite] }));
  return newSite;
 },
 updateSite: async (siteIdentifier: string, updates: Partial<Site>) => {
  const updatedSite = await window.electronAPI.sites.update(
   siteIdentifier,
   updates
  );
  set((state) => ({
   sites: state.sites.map((site) =>
    site.identifier === siteIdentifier ? updatedSite : site
   ),
  }));
 },
});

export const createSiteOperationsActions = (
 set: SetState<SitesStore>,
 get: GetState<SitesStore>
) => ({
 deleteSite: async (siteIdentifier: string) => {
  await window.electronAPI.sites.delete(siteIdentifier);
  set((state) => ({
   sites: state.sites.filter((site) => site.identifier !== siteIdentifier),
  }));
 },
});

// Main store combines modular actions
export const useSitesStore = create<SitesStore>()((set, get) => ({
 sites: [],
 loading: false,

 // Combine modular action sets
 ...createSitesStateActions(set, get),
 ...createSiteOperationsActions(set, get),
}));

// Simple stores use direct create pattern
export const useUIStore = create<UIStore>((set) => ({
 sidebarOpen: false,
 toggleSidebar: () => set((state) => ({ sidebarOpen: !state.sidebarOpen })),
}));
```

#### Build System: webpack → Vite

#### Migration Benefits

- **Speed**: Faster development builds
- **HMR**: Better hot module replacement
- **Simplicity**: Less configuration
- **Modern**: ES modules and tree shaking

#### Event System: Basic Events → TypedEventBus

##### Problems with Basic Event System

- **Type Safety**: No compile-time validation of event data
- **Debugging**: Difficult to trace event flow
- **Metadata**: No automatic event correlation or debugging information
- **IPC Integration**: Manual event forwarding between main and renderer processes

##### TypedEventBus Benefits

- **Type Safety**: Compile-time validation of event names and data
- **Automatic Metadata**: Correlation IDs, timestamps, and debugging info
- **Middleware Support**: Cross-cutting concerns like logging and validation
- **IPC Integration**: Automatic event forwarding via EventsService
- **Debugging**: Comprehensive diagnostics and event tracing

##### Event System Migration Example

###### **Before (Basic Events)**:

```typescript
// No type safety, manual IPC forwarding
emitter.emit("site:updated", someData); // any type
ipcMain.emit("forward-to-renderer", "site:updated", someData); // manual forwarding

// In renderer
ipcRenderer.on("site:updated", (event, data) => {
 // data is any, no correlation info
 handleSiteUpdate(data);
});
```

###### **After (TypedEventBus)**:

```typescript
// Type-safe events with automatic metadata
interface AppEvents {
 "site:updated": { siteIdentifier: string; changes: Partial<Site> };
}

const eventBus = new TypedEventBus<AppEvents>("app-events");

// Backend emission with automatic metadata
await eventBus.emitTyped("site:updated", {
 siteIdentifier: "site_123",
 changes: { name: "New Name" },
});

// Frontend handling via EventsService
const cleanup = await EventsService.onSiteUpdated((data) => {
 // data is fully typed with automatic metadata
 console.log(`Site ${data.siteIdentifier} updated`, data._meta.correlationId);
 handleSiteUpdate(data);
});
```

### 🔧 Architecture Transformation

#### Monolithic → Service-Oriented

##### Before: Monolithic Approach

```text
src/
├── components/     # All React components
├── utils/         # Mixed utilities
├── api/           # Direct API calls
└── main.tsx       # Everything initialized here
```

##### After: Service-Oriented Architecture

```text
electron/
├── services/           # Categorized services
│   ├── database/      # Repository pattern
│   ├── monitoring/    # Monitoring services
│   ├── ipc/          # IPC communication
│   └── notifications/ # Notification services
├── managers/          # Business logic orchestrators
└── ServiceContainer.ts # Dependency injection

src/
├── components/        # React components
├── stores/           # Zustand state management
├── services/         # Frontend services
└── main.tsx          # Clean initialization
```

#### Key Architectural Improvements

##### 1. Dependency Injection

###### **Before**: Manual service instantiation

```typescript
// Scattered service creation
const siteService = new SiteService();
const monitorService = new MonitorService();
```

###### **After**: Centralized container

```typescript
// ServiceContainer manages all dependencies
export class ServiceContainer {
 private services = new Map<string, unknown>();

 get<T>(key: string): T {
  return this.services.get(key) as T;
 }
}
```

##### 2. Event-Driven Communication

###### **Before**: Direct method calls

```typescript
// Tight coupling
siteService.updateSite(site);
uiManager.refreshSites(); // Manual coordination
```

###### **After**: Event-driven

```typescript
// Loose coupling via events
await eventBus.emitTyped("sites:updated", { site });
// UI automatically updates via event subscription
```

##### 3. Type-Safe IPC

###### **Before**: Untyped communication

```typescript
// No type safety
ipcMain.handle("create-site", async (event, data) => {
 return await createSite(data); // data is any
});
```

###### **After**: Fully typed with validation

```typescript
// Complete type safety with validation
export class IPCService {
 registerStandardizedIpcHandler<T, R>(
  channel: string,
  handler: (data: T) => Promise<R> | R,
  validator: (data: unknown) => data is T,
  options?: IpcHandlerOptions
 ): void {
  ipcMain.handle(channel, async (event, data: unknown) => {
   // Automatic validation
   if (!validator(data)) {
    throw new Error(`Invalid data for channel ${channel}`);
   }

   // Type-safe handler execution
   return await handler(data);
  });
 }
}

// Usage with type guards
ipcService.registerStandardizedIpcHandler(
 "add-site",
 async (data: SiteCreationData) => {
  return await siteManager.createSite(data);
 },
 isSiteCreationData // Type guard ensures validation
);
```

### 🔍 Monitoring System Evolution

#### Basic → Enhanced Monitoring

##### Phase 1: Basic Monitoring

- Simple HTTP requests
- Basic status checking
- No operation correlation
- Race conditions possible

##### Phase 2: Enhanced Monitoring

- **Operation Correlation**: UUID-based operation tracking
- **Race Condition Prevention**: Validates operations before updates
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Structured logging with correlation IDs
- **Error Recovery**: Sophisticated retry and fallback mechanisms

#### Monitor Type Architecture

##### Extensible Monitor System

```typescript
// Clean interface-based design
interface IMonitorService {
 check(config: MonitorConfig): Promise<MonitorCheckResult>;
 validateConfig(config: unknown): config is MonitorConfig;
}

// Easy to add new monitor types
export class CustomMonitorService implements IMonitorService {
 async check(config: CustomMonitorConfig): Promise<MonitorCheckResult> {
  // Custom monitoring logic
 }
}
```

### 🧪 Testing Evolution

#### Manual → Comprehensive Automated Testing

##### Before: Manual Testing

- Manual verification of features
- No automated test coverage
- Bugs discovered in production

##### After: Comprehensive Test Suite

- **Dual Configuration**: Separate tests for frontend and backend
- **Unit Tests**: Service and component testing
- **Integration Tests**: IPC and database testing
- **Type Testing**: TypeScript compilation verification
- **Coverage Reports**: Automated coverage tracking

```bash
# Current testing capabilities
npm run test:all              # All tests (frontend + electron + shared)
npm run test:electron         # Backend tests
npm run test:frontend         # Frontend tests
npm run test:shared           # Shared utility tests
npm run test:all:coverage     # Coverage reports (all configurations)
```

### 📚 Documentation Evolution

#### Minimal → Comprehensive Documentation

##### Before: Basic README

- Simple setup instructions
- Minimal architecture information
- No contribution guidelines

##### After: Extensive Documentation Ecosystem

- **Architecture Decision Records (ADRs)**: Design decisions
- **Implementation Guides**: Step-by-step instructions
- **API Documentation**: Complete interface reference
- **Troubleshooting**: Common issues and solutions
- **AI Context**: Quick onboarding for AI assistants
- **Code Templates**: Consistent patterns

### 🔄 Current Migration Status

#### ✅ Completed Migrations

- [x] **Database**: LowDB → SQLite (COMPLETE)
- [x] **State Management**: React Context → Zustand with modular composition (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Build System**: webpack → Vite (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Architecture**: Monolithic → Service-oriented (COMPLETE)
- [x] **IPC**: Untyped → Type-safe with validation (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Event System**: Basic events → TypedEventBus with metadata (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Monitoring**: Basic → Enhanced with race condition prevention (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Testing**: Manual → Automated with comprehensive mocking (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Documentation**: Minimal → Comprehensive with current patterns (COMPLETE)
- [x] **Error Handling**: Scattered → Centralized with withErrorHandling utility (COMPLETE)

#### 🔧 Ongoing Improvements

- **Performance Optimization**: Continuous monitoring and optimization
- **Security Enhancements**: Regular security audits and updates
- **Feature Expansion**: New monitor types and capabilities
- **Documentation Maintenance**: Keeping documentation current

### 📈 Impact of Evolution

#### Performance Improvements

- **Database Operations**: 90% faster with SQLite transactions
- **UI Responsiveness**: Eliminated unnecessary re-renders with Zustand
- **Build Times**: 70% faster with Vite
- **Memory Usage**: 60% reduction with proper state management

#### Developer Experience

- **Type Safety**: 100% TypeScript coverage eliminates runtime errors
- **Development Speed**: Hot reload and fast builds
- **Code Quality**: Automated linting and formatting
- **Documentation**: Comprehensive guides reduce onboarding time

#### Reliability Improvements

- **Error Handling**: Centralized error management
- **Race Conditions**: Eliminated through operation correlation
- **Data Integrity**: ACID compliance with SQLite transactions
- **Testing Coverage**: Automated test suite prevents regressions

### 🎯 Future Evolution Plans

#### Short Term (Next 3 months)

- **Performance Metrics**: Add performance monitoring
- **Enhanced Notifications**: Rich notification system
- **Mobile Support**: PWA capabilities exploration

#### Medium Term (Next 6 months)

- **Plugin System**: Extensible plugin architecture
- **Cloud Sync**: Optional cloud data synchronization
- **Advanced Analytics**: Trend analysis and reporting

#### Long Term (Next year)

- **Multi-Instance**: Support for multiple monitoring instances
- **Enterprise Features**: Advanced security and compliance
- **Machine Learning**: Predictive failure detection

### 💡 Lessons Learned

#### Migration Best Practices

1. **Incremental Changes**: Migrate one system at a time
2. **Maintain Compatibility**: Keep old systems running during transition
3. **Comprehensive Testing**: Test each migration thoroughly
4. **Documentation**: Document decisions and rationale
5. **User Impact**: Minimize disruption to end users

#### Architecture Principles

1. **Separation of Concerns**: Each service has a single responsibility
2. **Type Safety**: TypeScript everywhere prevents runtime errors
3. **Event-Driven**: Loose coupling through events
4. **Testability**: Design for easy testing
5. **Documentation**: Code should be self-documenting

---

🎉 **Evolution Success**: The migration from a simple prototype to an enterprise-grade monitoring application demonstrates the power of incremental improvement and architectural discipline.
