docs/Packages/TypeFest/source/is-equal.d.md, before:

Returns a boolean for whether the two given types are equal.
@link <https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/27024#issuecomment-421529650>
@link <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68961864/how-does-the-equals-work-in-typescript/68963796#68963796>
Use-cases:

- If you want to make a conditional branch based on the result of a comparison of two types.
  @example

<!-- -->

    import type {IsEqual} from 'type-fest';
    // This type returns a boolean for whether the given array includes the given item.
    // `IsEqual` is used to compare the given array at position 0 and the given item and then return true if they are equal.
    type Includes<Value extends readonly any[], Item> =
        Value extends readonly [Value[0], ...infer rest]
            ? IsEqual<Value[0], Item> extends true
                ? true
                : Includes<rest, Item>
            : false;

@category Type Guard
@category Utilities

``` typescript
export type IsEqual<A, B> =
    (<G>() => G extends A & G | G ? 1 : 2) extends
    (<G>() => G extends B & G | G ? 1 : 2)
        ? true
        : false;
```

Commit message:

📝 [docs] Sync latest upstream documentation changes for packages and TSDoc
This commit updates the documentation for several packages and refines the TSDoc content.

✨ **New Features**
- Introduces the `IsUndefined` type guard to `TypeFest`.
- Exports `Options` types for several `TypeFest` utilities, enhancing configurability.

🚜 **Refactoring & Improvements**
- **TypeFest**:
  - Renames several internal helper types with a leading underscore (`_`) for clarity (e.g., `_Numeric`, `_LiteralStringUnion`).
  - Removes unused types and consolidates internal imports.
  - Improves the `IsEqual` type to handle `never` more robustly.
- **TSDoc**:
  - Standardizes code block formatting and cleans up whitespace for better readability.
  - Corrects tag names in titles (e.g., `@alpha` instead of `"@alpha"`) and improves comment formatting across multiple files.
  - Updates the `@override` example to use `@virtual` for the base method, reflecting more accurate usage.

🧹 **Chore**
- Updates `node-sqlite3-wasm` documentation to reflect the new SQLite version `3.50.4`.
- Syncs the latest documentation content and file hashes for `TypeFest` and `node-sqlite3-wasm`.

Signed-off-by: Nick2bad4u <20943337+Nick2bad4u@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/Packages/TypeFest/source/is-equal.d.md, after:

Returns a boolean for whether the two given types are equal.
@link <https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/27024#issuecomment-421529650>
@link <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/68961864/how-does-the-equals-work-in-typescript/68963796#68963796>
Use-cases:

- If you want to make a conditional branch based on the result of a comparison of two types.
  @example

<!-- -->

    import type {IsEqual} from 'type-fest';
    // This type returns a boolean for whether the given array includes the given item.
    // `IsEqual` is used to compare the given array at position 0 and the given item and then return true if they are equal.
    type Includes<Value extends readonly any[], Item> =
        Value extends readonly [Value[0], ...infer rest]
            ? IsEqual<Value[0], Item> extends true
                ? true
                : Includes<rest, Item>
            : false;

@category Type Guard
@category Utilities

``` typescript
import type {IsNever} from './is-never.d.ts';
export type IsEqual<A, B> =
    [A, B] extends [infer A, infer B]
        ? _IsEqual<A, B>
        : false;
```

``` typescript
type _IsEqual<A, B> =
    (<G>() => G extends A & G | G ? 1 : 2) extends
    (<G>() => G extends B & G | G ? 1 : 2)
        ? true
        : false;
```
